Most Asian markets advanced Friday, with Japanese stocks buoyed by a proposed merger between Nippon Steel Corp. and Sumitomo Metal Industries, and by an upbeat profit forecast from Softbank Corp. Indonesian shares overcame early losses to rise, cheering a decision by the central bank to raise interest rates in the face of high inflation, while Australian shares gained ground after the central bank there raised its end-2011 economic estimate. Trading was thin on some bourses given that markets in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam were closed for the Lunar New Year holiday, and as investors awaited U.S. nonfarm payroll data for January due later in the global day. “The U.S. jobs data often serve as a turning point for markets so there is a risk that U.S. shares may face a correction after the release,” said Yutaka Miura, senior technical analyst at Mizuho Securities. The Nikkei Stock Average  climbed 1.1% in Tokyo, the S&P;/ASX 200  added 0.9% in Sydney and the NZX 50 rose 0.5% in Wellington, while the PSE Composite index finished 0.4% lower in Manila. India’s Sensex  retreated 1.5% in afternoon trading, after climbing 2% in the previous session, and Indonesian shares overcame volatility to rise 0.3% after the central bank there raised interest rates by 0.25 percentage points to 6.75%. Thailand’s SET added 1.4%. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were up six points in screen trade. Mergers-and-acquisition news in the steel sector bolstered the Tokyo market. Shares of Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries surged after the two agreed to merge in a deal that would create the world’s No.2 steel producer and will likely fire up further industry acquisitions. “Blast-furnace steel makers in Japan have faced a harsh operating environment over the last few years ... we believe the proposed merger is positive for the industry because it should strengthen steel makers’ negotiating position with customers,” JP Morgan analyst Akira Kishimoto wrote in a report. “There are hopes that realignment will spread to other sectors. The foreign investor perspective on Japanese firms is becoming more positive,” said Okasan Securities strategist Hideyuki Ishiguro. Nippon Steel    surged 9.1% and Sumitomo Metal    soared 16.1%, while peers Kobe Steel    and JFE Holdings    gained 2.8% and 2.1%, respectively. The spike in Sumitomo Metal shares came even as the company cut its sales outlook. Also getting a lift from merger-and-acquisition news, QBE Insurance    jumped 7.4% in Sydney after saying it has acquired the Balboa insurance portfolio from Bank of America-Merrill Lynch for an upfront payment of $700 million. 
U.S. stock futures retained the bulk of Friday gains after the nation’s unemployment rate unexpectedly declined in January while nonfarm payrolls climbed less than anticipated, curbed by poor weather. Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, noted positive and negative aspects to the government report. “Bottom line, who knows?” wrote Boockvar in an emailed reaction to the data that found the addition of 36,000 jobs in January and pegged the jobless rate at 9%, down from 9.4% in December. Stock-index futures wavered lower but at last check retained mild gains, with futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  up by 16 points to 12,025.00 and S&P; 500 futures  up by 1.4 point at 1,304.7. Nasdaq 100 futures  rose 2.25 points to 2,324. U.S. markets rallied on Thursday following robust January sales figures from a slew of retailers as well as positive economic data on productivity and the non-manufacturing sector. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 20.29 points, or 0.2%, at 12,062.26. Before Friday’s opening bell, shares of Las Vegas Sands Corp.  fell after the casino operator reported late Thursday revenue short of market expectations. Shares of Power One Inc.  slumped after the power-converter company’s revenue forecast disappointed investors. Shares of JDS Uniphase Corp. , which provides optical products, surged in premarket action. The company reported second-quarter earnings late Thursday that were well ahead of expectations. Health-care insurer Aetna Inc. reported operating earnings of 63 cents a share for the latest quarter, marginally ahead of the 62 cents consensus forecast of analysts polled by FactSet Research. In other news, Bank of America Corp.  entered a 10-year distribution deal with Australia’s QBE Insurance Group under which QBE will pay $700 million for distribution rights. In international markets, gains for banks and miners helped drive European stock indexes higher, with the U.K.’s FTSE 100  up 0.3% in midday trading. Most Asian markets advanced, with Japan’s Nikkei 225 Average  closing up 1.1% following a proposed merger between Nippon Steel Corp. and Sumitomo Metal Industries. 
Shares of Bank of America Corp. rose late Friday after the company said it is getting out of the reverse-mortgage business, and JDSU slightly added to dayside gains in the wake of the company’s quarterly results. B. of A.’s shares rose 0.7% to $14.39 following the bank’s announcement that it’s exiting the reverse-mortgage business so it can focus more on its main mortgage operations. “We made the strategic decision to exit the reverse business due to competing demands and priorities that require investments and resources be focused on other key areas of our business,” said Doug Jones, consumer sales and institutional mortgage services executive for Bank of America Home Loans, in a statement. Late-traded shares of JDSU  edged up 0.4% to $22.85. They closed 27% higher in the regular session after the networking-gear maker late Thursday swung to a fiscal second-quarter profit on a jump in sales to $473.5 million from $342.9 million. The revenue gain was fueled in part from strong sales of Microsoft Corp.’s  Kinect gaming systems. JDSU supplies two components to each system, Evercore Partners noted in a report. Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  shares gained 1.3% to $3.65, adding to their 23% day-session climb. The biotech company’s shares slid earlier this week when the Food and Drug Administration refused to consider approving the company’s new diet pill Contrave until it runs an additional study on its cardiovascular risks. But shares of Borders Group Inc.  shed a penny to 38 cents. Late Friday, the bookstore chain operator said it received notice that it wasn’t in compliance with New York Stock Exchange’s requirement that shares close at minimum average closing price of $1 a share over a consecutive 30-day trading period. Borders said it has a six-month period to regain compliance, during which time its shares will continue to be listed and trade on the NYSE. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks closed modestly higher as investors set aside January jobs growth that was likely hampered by the weather, and shifted focus to corporate earnings. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 30 points, or 0.3%, to 12,092.15, for its fifth straight day of gains. The S&P; 500 Index   rose 4 points, or 0.3%, to 1,310.87. The Nasdaq Composite  closed 15 points, or 0.6%, higher at 2,769.30. For the week, the Dow rose 2.3%, the S&P; 500 gained 2.7%, and the Nasdaq advanced 3.1%. 
U.S. stocks, which cleared two psychological hurdles in the past week, may have put talk of a correction to rest, setting up investors to focus on earnings from Cisco Systems Inc., Kraft Foods Inc. and others. “We had it [a correction],” said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners, about Wall Street’s sharp drop on Jan. 28 — when the Dow lost 166.13 points, or 1.4%, on worries about Egypt’s political unrest. “By moving in a sideways pattern, that could work off some of this perceived excess, or the belief that people think it’s overdone,” he added of the market’s near-steady advance. Stocks were able to bounce back in the past week, pushing the Dow Jones Industrial Average above 12,000 and the S&P; 500 Index atop 1,300 for the first time since 2008. On Friday both the Dow  and the S&P; 500  tallied their best weekly performance since Dec. 3. Wall Street’s rise came amid another week of mostly solid earnings. Of the 308 companies of the S&P; 500 that have reported earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010, 72% beat consensus expectations, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters analyst Christine Short. In the days ahead, 62 S&P; 500 companies are expected to report results, including Walt Disney Co.  on Tuesday, technology giant Cisco  and beverage-maker Coca-Cola Co.  on Wednesday, Kraft  on Thursday and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.  on Friday. Estimated share-weighted earnings for the S&P; 500 for the final quarter of last year stood at $214.3 billion as of Friday, above the prior week’s $212.1 billion, Short found. Closing higher every session last week, the Dow industrials on Friday ended up 29.89 points, or 0.3%, to 12,092.1. It gained 2.3% for the week, and rose for a ninth week out of the last 10. Tallying its first weekly advance in three, the S&P; 500 climbed 3.77 points, or 0.3%, to 1,310.87, up 2.7% from the prior Friday’s finish. Notching its best weekly gain in more than four months, the Nasdaq Composite Index  added 15.42 points, or 0.6%, to 2,769.3, up 3.1% for the week. The major U.S. stock indexes all gained Friday after the biggest economic report of the month found only 36,000 additions to U.S. payrolls in January, not even a third of what most economists had forecast. “On the surface, the number was a disaster, but please note the stock market is up and Treasury yields are rising,” said Phil Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors. Typically, worse-than-expected economic reports prompt investors to flee equities and other assets viewed as dicey for those perceived as safer, including government debt. “The weather impact on this report was absolutely horrific; the BLS [U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics] told us by their count there were 886,000 people who couldn’t get to work last month,” said Orlando, who believes it won’t be until March or April for the jobs data to be cleared of weather-related distortions. The government’s data also had the U.S. jobless rate dipping to 9% in January, its lowest level since April 2009. “The media is going to conclude, ‘Great news, President Obama gets unemployment down to 9%.’ The number is a head fake because of the weather,” commented Orlando. While he believes the unemployment rate without the weather aberration would be at or near 10%, Federated’s Orlando also thinks the economy is and will be adding 200,000 to 300,000 jobs into the middle of the year. “It’s inconceivable that we’re not going to get hiring” given a slew of recent data, including strong reports on manufacturing and productivity, he said. 
U.S. stocks closed broadly higher Monday, with the Dow industrials extending their winning streak to six sessions as sentiment rose on corporate deals and earnings. The ongoing flow into equities and other riskier assets had 10-year Treasury yields , which are used to determine rates on mortgages and other consumer loans, at their highest level since May. “Investors continue to move funds from bonds to equities in tandem with the release of encouraging data suggesting the domestic economy is continuing to gain forward momentum,” said Fred Dickson, chief investment strategist at Davidson Cos. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 69.48 points, or 0.6%, to 12,161.6, with 21 of its 30 components gaining, led by Bank of America Corp.  , up 2.7%. The banking giant said it had formed a unit to modify delinquent mortgages and was getting out of the reverse-mortgage origination business. The S&P; 500 Index   climbed 8.18 points, or 0.6%, to 1,319.05, with financials leading gains among its 10 industry groups, with insurer American International Group Inc.   up 6.1%. The Nasdaq Composite Index   was up 14.69 points, or 0.5%, to 2,783.99. For every stock declining, two gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 643 million shares had traded as of 3:30 p.m. Eastern. On Friday, both the Dow and the S&P; 500 hit new 2 1/2-year highs on optimism for the economic recovery. The Dow capped its best week since early December by ending at its highest closing level since June 17, 2008. Monday also brought a round of deals, with Internet company AOL Inc.  disclosing plans to purchase online news site Huffington Post for $315 million, and diversified industrial firm Danaher Corp.  saying it would acquire medical-diagnostic company Beckman Coulter Inc. . In the energy sector, shares of Pride International Inc.   were among the notable gainers after Ensco PLC   said it would acquire the oil developer in a deal valued at about $7.31 billion. And, Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.    said it would purchase all of the shares of Wesco Financial Inc.  that it doesn’t already own in a transaction valued at $547.6 million. Conglomerate Loews Corp.   on Monday tallied its best quarter of the year, reporting a 16% rise in profit that beat Wall Street’s expectations. But in another hit to Wall Street’s image, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  said Saturday that it found suspicious files on its U.S. servers, but added there was no evidence that hackers had compromised its trading platforms. Credit card giants Visa  and MasterCard  both rose on a report showing better-than-expected credit card usage in December. In commodities, the price of copper surged to a record high on worries about supplies of the industrial metal and after recent economic data hiked the forecast for demand. 
U.S. stocks on Tuesday extended multiyear highs, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up for a seventh session, after McDonald’s Corp. posted better-than-anticipated sales. The Dow industrials  closed up 71.52 points, or 0.6%, at 12,233.15, the highest close since June 16, 2008. All but six of its 30 components tallied gains, led by McDonald’s Corp. . The fast-food giant’s shares rose 2.6% after it reported better-than-expected gains in sales in every part of the globe except the United States during January. The gain pushed the Dow’s daily winning streak to its longest in nearly seven months, since the seven-session stretch that ended July 14, 2010. Investors have increasingly focused on largely positive corporate results over the last week, overlooking uncertainty clouding Egypt’s leadership change and on Tuesday, China’s latest interest-rate hike to tamp down inflation. “If trends continue with the firms left to report, fourth-quarter 2010 could be the seventh consecutive quarter of earnings outperformance by 70% or more of companies,” noted William Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Financial Services Group. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ended up 5.52 points, or 0.4%, to 1,324.57, the highest close since June 19, 2008. Consumer-discretionary shares fared the best and energy ranked the worst among its 10 industry groups. The Nasdaq Composite Index  added 13.06 points, or 0.5%, to 2,797.05, the highest since November 6, 2007. “The market was weak early on because of China raising rates; we’re obviously worried about the implications for global economic growth,” said Michael Gibbs, director of equity strategy at Morgan Keegan, referring to the third interest-rate hike by China since mid-October. Yet, “investors have this burning desire to buy the dips right now, so they keep piling in on any sign of weakness,” Gibbs added. For every two stocks that fell nearly two gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume hit 889 million shares. Stocks on the move included Kindred Healthcare Inc. , up 28% on its proposed purchase of acute-care services provider RehabCare Group Inc. , shares of which rallied 45%.Read more on health-care stocks. Urban Outfitters Inc.  shares gained 5.6%, Family Dollar Stores Inc.  added 5.2% and Starbucks Corp.  gained 2.4% -- all driving gains among retail stocks on the S&P; 500. Treasury prices fell, sending yields sharply higher, after the government’s sale of $32 billion of three-year debt brought the lowest demand in more than three years from bidders including central banks. “The highest 3-year note yield since last May wasn’t enough to entice buyers, which is why I believe Treasuries across the curve sold off after the results were posted,” Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, wrote in an email. “The average 30-year mortgage rate will be back above 5% tomorrow after touching 4.99% yesterday,” Boockvar wrote. Sapping energy stocks, crude-oil futures for March delivery  fell 54 cents to $86.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, while April gold  rose $15.90 to end at $1,364.10 an ounce, its highest close in nearly three weeks. 
Shares of NYSE Euronext Inc. rose Friday evening following a report indicating there’s additional acquisition interest in the exchange operator, and Brocade Communications Systems Inc. edged higher following a standout day-session of gains. Late-traded shares of NYSE Euronext  picked up 0.6% to $38 after the New York Times blog DealBook reported Friday that exchange operators Nasdaq OMX Group and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  are in talks about forming a partnership to make an unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext. Shares of Nasdaq OMX Group   were unchanged at $29.09, and IntercontinentalExchange shares slipped 0.1% to $127.05 in scant volume. An offer for NYSE Euronext may not emerge for several weeks and there is a low probability of a bid taking shape, DealBook said, citing an unidentified person briefed on the matter. Under some of the terms being discussed by the two companies, Nasdaq would likely take over NYSE Euronext’s cash equities trading business, including the Big Board and its floor traders. ICE is more interested in NYSE Euronext’s derivatives business, DealBook reported. Earlier this week, Deutsche Boerse AG    said it will pay about $9.5 billion to acquire NYSE Euronext. Late-traded Brocade shares  rose 0.3% to $6.40. They closed the regular session up 6% in heavy volume, marking their biggest percentage rise since late September. The rally in Brocade’s stock followed the networking gear maker’s quarterly report, released late Thursday, that surpassed analyst expectations. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks advanced before the start of the long weekend. Trading will be closed Monday in observance of the Presidents Day holiday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  ended 73 points higher at 12,391.25. The S&P; 500 Index   rose 3 points to 1,343.01 and the Nasdaq Composite  picked up 2 points to 2,833.95. The indexes posted weekly gains. 
U.S stocks rose again this week despite rising Chinese interest rates, higher inflation and major political and diplomatic disruptions in the Middle East. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 73.11 points, or 0.59%, to 12,391.25, its highest close since June 5, 2008. The measure rose 0.96% this week, and has gained 4.8% over the past three weeks, marking its best three-week performance since August. The Nasdaq Composite  climbed 2.37, or 0.08%, to 2,833.95, its highest close since Oct. 31, 2007. It is now down just 0.88% from its October 2007 multi-year high. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index added 2.58, or 0.19%, to 1343.01, its highest close since June 17, 2008. Please be sure to watch our Week Ahead Videos for Asia, Europe and the U.S.: Greg Morcroft, assistant managing editor The stock market has really been humming along lately. But the best news of all is that this is a broad-based rally that isn’t just for sophisticated traders and hedge funds. This is a real rally for real folks, for hardworking Americans with 401(k) plans and buy-and-hold retail investors who actively manage their own small portfolios. And who says buying and holding blue chips is an extinct investment strategy for the timid or naive? The prices that American consumers pay for goods and services rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4% in January, mainly because of higher gas and grocery expenses. More than two-thirds of the increase in consumer prices last month stemmed from food and energy. Yet “core” consumer prices rose a lesser 0.2%. The core data strips out volatile food and energy costs that can make overall inflationary pressure in the economy to seem higher or lower than it actually is. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch had forecast the consumer price index to rise 0.3% overall, with a 0.1% increase in the core rate. Borders Group Inc. on Wednesday filed for bankruptcy, paying the price for its failed bid to compete with the likes of Amazon.com by pushing its brick-and-mortar business model. As part of the Chapter 11 process, Borders will close 30% of its 642 stores, or about 200 that it identifies as underperforming. The bookseller operated twice that many at its peak in 2003. The Ann Arbor, Mich.-based company listed debt of $1.29 billion and assets of $1.28 billion at the end of 2010 in its bankruptcy filing. Don’t be so sure that a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is the best home loan for your needs. For some borrowers, it may make more sense to consider an adjustable-rate mortgage instead. Scarred by the housing crisis and fears of ARMs resetting to unaffordable payments, borrowers have been reluctant to assume much risk in their mortgage loans lately, with many of them opting for the predictable 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. For a time, taking that extra security didn’t cost much, since the adjustable rates weren’t that much lower than the fixed-rate options. But today, the rate spread between the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage and the 5-year ARM has widened to historic levels, some say. 
Asian equities took a beating Tuesday as investors sold down stocks across the region on worries about raging political tensions in the Mideast and North Africa. Japanese stocks were hammered down as selling pressure mounted after Moody’s Investors Service lowered the nation’s ratings outlook, while New Zealand shares and currency skidded after an earthquake in the country’s second-largest city of Christchurch. “International turmoil in the Mideast and the Dow [Jones Industrial Average] being closed for an extra day have seen European markets lead the way with falls [Monday] and that is affecting sentiment,” said Craigs Investment Partners broker Bryon Burke in New Zealand. U.S. markets were shut Monday for the Presidents Day holiday. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  gave up 1.8%, China’s Shanghai Composite  sank 2.6%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index  lost 2.1%, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  fell 0.9%, South Korea’s Kospi dropped 1.8% and Taiwan’s Taiex shed 1.9%. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures tumbled 130 points in screen trade, pointing to a likely sharp fall on Wall Street. The political crisis in Libya appeared to be worsening in the face of mounting violence against pro-democracy protesters, amid reports Libyan security forces had fired on demonstrators from war planes and helicopters. Crude-oil prices soared on the news, raising worries about the impact on some countries struggling to battle weak domestic economic conditions. April Nymex futures jumped $8.09 to $97.80 per barrel on Globex. Spot gold dropped $6.60 to $1,400 a troy ounce. “Libya is the first major oil exporter to be engulfed by the crisis and the first to see significant disruption to oil production,” Julian Jessop, economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note. “An additional $10 per barrel on the price of oil is still significant, particularly for those weaker economies in Europe facing a major fiscal squeeze. But for the global economy as a whole, it is just about manageable.” Airlines around the region were spooked as oil prices climbed, with All Nippon Airways Co.    losing 2.6% in Tokyo, Cathay Pacific Airways    stumbling 5.1% in Hong Kong, Air China    falling 5.1% in Shanghai, China Airlines skidding 4.7% in Taipei and Qantas Airways    losing 2% in Sydney. In afternoon trade, Thai Airways International sank 6.9% and Singapore Airlines    gave up 2.4%. Energy-sector shares fared relatively better, with Woodside Petroleum    rising 0.1% in Sydney and Japan Petroleum Exploration Co.    rising 0.3%, while Cnooc    rose 1.3% in Hong Kong. In Mumbai, heavyweight Reliance Industries  jumped 3.0% to support a downbeat market, a day after announcing that BP PLC.    will pay the Indian company $7.2 billion for interests in 23 oil and gas blocks. The benchmark Sensex  fell 0.8%, however, as most of its other constituents declined; leading the fall, Hero Honda Motors  lost 3.6%, while Tata Motors    gave up 2.1%. 
Priceline.com Inc. climbed late Wednesday, finding support from a better-than-expected financial forecast, and Nordstrom Inc. gained after the retailer raised its dividend payout. Priceline.com   shares recently jumped 5.3% to $448.75. They had dropped more than 3% early in the session following the company’s report that fourth-quarter sales rose to $731.3 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected $734.9 million in revenue. Revenue at Priceline was $541.8 million in the year-ago period. The company said earnings excluding one-time items were $3.40 a share, above the consensus estimate of $3.09 a share. Net income applicable to common stockholders rose to $135.7 million, or $2.66 a share, from $78.5 million or $1.55 a share. Priceline’s forecast for first-quarter adjusted earnings was also above the consensus estimate. Priceline expects $2.34 to $2.44 a share, and Wall Street’s current call is for adjusted earnings of $2.30 a share. Stock in Nordstrom  picked up 0.3% to $44.71 after the department-stores operator said its board approved a 15% hike in the quarterly dividend to 23 cents a share. The dividend will be paid on March 15 to shareholders of record as of March 4. Elsewhere, shares of Limited Brands Inc.  edged up 7 cents, or 0.1%, $31.80. The company, whose brands include Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of $1.26 a share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $1.25 a share. Net earnings were $452.3 million, or $1.36 a share, from $356.1 million, or $1.08 a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose to $3.46 billion from $3.06 billion. Wall Street had expected $3.46 billion in sales Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks dropped, pushing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to its first back-to-back, triple-digit decline in eight months as oil prices topped $100 a barrel for the first time since September 2008. The Dow slid 107 points, or 0.9%, to 12,105.78. The S&P; 500 Index  fell 8 points, or 0.6%, to 1,307.40 and the Nasdaq Composite Index  lost 33 points, or 1.2%, to 2,722.99. 
Most Asian stocks fell Thursday on worries that high crude-oil prices driven by the Libyan political crisis would fuel inflation and stifle economic growth. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  fell 1.2%, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  gave up 0.8%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index  dropped 1.3%, South Korea’s Kospi lost 0.6% and India’s Sensex  tumbled 2.3% in afternoon trade. The broad losses came after April crude-oil futures topped $100-a-barrel overnight in New York. China’s Shanghai Composite index  rose 0.6%, advancing on the back of oil and coal shares, while Taiwan’s Taiex added 0.2% on bargain-buying in some beaten-down technology and airline stocks. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures dropped 61 points in screen trade. “Inflation is continuing to rise globally … and investors are drawing the obvious conclusion that either their investments are going to be inflated away or they will have to face higher interest rates sooner than they had been made to believe,” said Uwe Parpart, chief Asia strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. A violent struggle for power in oil-rich Libya has boosted crude-oil prices recently, prompting concerns that the economic recoveries in the U.S. and Europe could get derailed, and potentially hurt Asian growth. April Nymex crude-oil futures surged past $100 a barrel for the first time in more than two years late on Wednesday on worries about potential disruptions to supplies. The front-month futures contract continued to rally in electronic trading, and was recently up $3.78 at $101.88 a barrel on Globex. In Japan, the market continued to push lower, weighed by the Mideast crisis and a stronger yen. Honda Motor Co.    dropped 1.4% and Sony Corp.    fell 1.5%. Tobu Railway Co.  slumped 12.1% and Toyobo Co.    sank 8.8% — both on dilution concerns. Tobu said Wednesday it will raise up to ¥93.20 billion ($1.14 billion) via equity financing and Toyobo was looking to raise ¥18.72 billion by issuing new shares to overseas investors. Bridgestone Corp.    fell 3.6% on concerns about rising crude prices and the firmer yen. Measuring-instrument maker Anritsu  was down 5.6% after electronics maker NEC Corp.    said it will lower its stake in the company. NEC fell 1.3%. CSK Corp.  soared 14.6% on news Sumitomo Corp.    and a subsidiary will conduct a tender offer to buy a majority stake in the information-service company. Sumitomo Corp. was down 2.7%. In Sydney, BHP Billiton    dropped 1.3% following weakness in copper prices on the London Metals Exchange. Origin Energy    shed 3.5% on disappointing first-half earnings, and after it downgraded full-year earnings. Pacific Brands    and Transpacific Industries Group  shed 10.9% and 7.4%, respectively, on disappointing earnings. 
Shares of Boeing Co. jumped to a nine-month high Friday after the aerospace giant won a heated contest against rival EADS to build the U.S. Air Force’s new aerial-refueling tankers. Boeing’s  stock rose as much as 5% to its highest point since May, touching an intraday high of $74.29. The stock gradually backed down to close at $72.30, a 2% advance, making it the second-best performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average  . In Paris, shares of Netherlands-based EADS    declined 1.3%. In a note from equity-research firm Jefferies & Co., analysts said the share price of the winning bidder typically outperforms the loser by 80% over the five days following the announcement. However, EADS could still file a protest with the Government Accountability Office, delaying the award. . Terms of the contract call for Boeing to initially develop and deliver 18 KC-X aircraft to the U.S. by 2017 for $3.5 billion. The plan would also result in the eventual replacement of 179 KC-135 Stratotankers — some of which are more than 50 years old. But the overall contract, valued at more than $30 billion, is written as “fixed-price,” which means the customer won’t pay for any unforeseen and additional costs incurred by the manufacturer. . That will prove a challenge for the Chicago-based company as the aircraft in its offer — a converted 767 jet — may have been aggressively priced, according to Bernstein Research analyst Douglas Harned. “Boeing has stressed, as did EADS, that it would only submit a bid that would make this a profitable program,” Harned wrote in a note. “But the track record for Boeing and others (Lockheed Martin , EADS) in producing large military transports within a fixed-price structure has not been good.” Boeing noted this risk in its most recent annual filing with the government. “While firm fixed-price contracts enable us to benefit from performance improvements, cost reductions and efficiencies, they also subject us to the risk of reduced margins or incurring losses if we are unable to achieve estimated costs and revenues,” the company said. “If our estimated costs exceed our estimated price, we recognize reach-forward losses, which can significantly affect our reported results.” Further, the KC-X program will likely place pressure on Boeing’s engineering resources as the company works up a redesign of its popular 737 commercial jetliner, as well as the development of the 787-9 and a possible 787-10. EADS had offered the Air Force a converted Airbus A330. Airbus is a commercial unit of EADS. “For Airbus, the outcome is negative, but should not be a significant issue. Airbus engineering and management resources are already stretched, so that there may be some relief in not going forward on the tanker,” Bernstein’s Harned said. Robert Spingarn at Credit Suisse said he expects the aggressive nature of the bidding war to result in a zero profit margin for Boeing, at least initially. “We do not expect particularly high profitability from the initial award,” he added. “We see limited room for error and/or cost overruns early in the process.” Others were more generous. “We assume that operating margins on the program could be about 3%, expanding to 8% to 9% as the program enters maturity in the 2020 time frame,” said Jefferies analyst Howard Rubel. Over the longer term, things will start to look up for Boeing and its subcontractors, which include Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. , Goodrich Corp.  and possibly RTI International Metals Inc. , which provides titanium to aircraft manufacturers. Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp. , will provide the engines. But the biggest benefit accruing to Boeing is that it blocked its biggest commercial rival from establishing its first production facilities in North America. “For Airbus to produce the A330 in Mobile, Ala., now would require the company’s own investment, rather than having work supported by the U.S. government,” commented Harned. 
U.S. stock futures retained the bulk of gains Monday after a Federal Reserve official offered a bullish spin on the economy and data showed a rise in personal income and spending in January. James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed, said in an interview on CNBC that rising energy prices weren’t enough of a jolt to dent the recovery. On Monday, futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 48 points to 12,158. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index  climbed 5.4 points to 1,324.2, and Nasdaq 100 futures  advanced 10 points to 2,355.75. Last week, U.S. equities, as measured by the S&P; 500 , had their largest down week since November as protests in the Middle East and North Africa helped push crude-oil prices higher. The blue-chip Dow benchmark  slumped 2.1% last week, with the pullback of 260.80 points marking its biggest weekly point drop since the week ended Aug. 13. On Monday’s U.S. economic calendar, manufacturing data for the Chicago region for February is scheduled to be released at 9:45 a.m. Eastern. Then, at 10 a.m. Eastern, a report on pending home sales for January will be released. Investors were also keeping an eye on speeches from central-bank officials. In a speech Monday morning in New York, William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the Fed would not let inflation “gain a foothold.” In deal news, Ventas Inc.  said it will acquire Nationwide Health Properties Inc.  in a stock-for-stock deal, creating one of the biggest publicly traded real-estate investment trusts and what would be the leading health-care REIT by equity value. In the commodity markets, April Nymex crude-oil futures fell 50 cents to $98.37 a barrel in electronic trading on Globex. Oil prices soared last week on worries about supply disruptions from Libya, which has been rocked by political unrest. Gold futures rose $3 to stand at $1,412.30 an ounce. The dollar index , which tracks the performance of the greenback against a basket of other major currencies, fell to 76.765. Asian markets finished mostly higher overnight. Investors digested data showing that India’s economic growth slowed to 8.2% in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the year-earlier period. European equities shrugged off earlier doldrums, with the Stoxx Europe 600 index  rising 0.7%. Holding the U.K.’s FTSE 100 index  in check, shares of HSBC Holdings PLC    slumped more than 5% after the banking giant’s 2010 net profit fell short of expectations. 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke stuck his neck out on Tuesday and said the increase in inflation from the spike in oil prices will be modest and temporary. “The most likely outcome is that the recent rise in commodity prices will lead to, at most, a temporary and relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,” Bernanke said in remarks to the Senate Banking Committee. Bernanke, appearing before Congress for his twice-a-year testimony on monetary policy, has been trying to throw cold water on market fears about inflation. The Fed believes that if these fears get out of hand, it can be a self-fulfilling prophesy for higher inflation. Consumers and lawmakers have criticized the Fed as gasoline prices have surged — averaging $3.37 per gallon at the pump, up from $2.70 a year ago, according to AAA. “The breadth of commodity prices increases has been stunning,” said Sen. Patrick Toomey, a freshman Republican Senator from Pennsylvania. The increase reminds economists of gasoline prices in the wake of Middle East turmoil in the 1970s, though energy now eats up a smaller proportion of the typical American consumer’s wallet. Financial markets were already worried that the Fed would not be able to exit its ultra-easy monetary policy without sparking inflation. The rise in oil prices has exacerbated that concern. On Wall Street, stock prices sank as investors digested Bernanke’s testimony and answered senators’ questions, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  surrendering most of its Monday gains by early afternoon. The decline was attributed more to another rise in oil prices than any particular Bernanke comment. The bond market also encountered headwinds, with prices for benchmark 10-year Treasury notes  under selling pressure throughout the session. Sen. Jim DeMint, a Republican from South Carolina, added that Fed’s monetary policy easing “has caused some concern about the long-term value of our currency and has caused a lot of us to look at ways to create more soundness to our monetary policy.” Bernanke issued a strong defense of the Fed’s innovative bond-buying program and insisted that supply and demand factors, and not Fed policy, was behind the run in commodity prices . He specifically said the weaker dollar  was not behind the surge in commodity prices, since commodity prices have climbed significantly in terms of all major currencies. At the same time. Bernanke tried to reassure markets that he would be watchful in case he turned out to be incorrect. “We will continue to monitor these developments closely and are prepared to respond as necessary to best support ongoing recovery in a context of price stability,” he said. Later on, he said the Fed was “unwaveringly committed” to low and stable inflation. Fed officials have fanned out in recent days to discuss the central bank’s policy stance, and even the most dovish of these officials have said they would not tolerate a sustained increase in inflation. Indeed, from their perspective, inflation is not here yet: Consumer prices, as measured by the personal consumption expenditure index, rose at a 1.2% year-on-year rate in January. This is well below the Fed’s implicit target of 2% or a bit below. 
Indian stocks soared to extend gains on Tuesday, with automobile companies leading after Monday’s federal budget didn’t raise excise duties and as February sales increased. Most other regional markets also advanced, with stocks in Shanghai and Hong Kong advancing after two separate surveys showed China’s manufacturing activity continued to expand in February, albeit at a smaller pace. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  advanced 1.2%, Taiwan’s Taiex finished 1.5% higher and India’s Sensex  climbed 3.1% in afternoon trade. China’s Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.5% and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  gained 0.3% in the wake of the Chinese manufacturing PMI data. China’s official manufacturing PMI slowed to 52.2 in February from 52.9 in January, while the HSBC PMI for February fell to 51.7 from 54.5 in January. A PMI reading above 50 indicates an expansion in manufacturing activity, while a reading below 50 indicates contraction. Both sets of data also highlighted rising input-cost pressures, drawing different responses from market participants on monetary-policy options facing Beijing. “We expect the PMI to retreat further in the months ahead; that may diminish the likelihood of stronger tightening measures from Beijing,” said Tang Yonggang, an analyst from Hong Yuan Securities. Credit Suisse economist Dong Tao said the firm doesn’t expect a change in Beijing’s monetary policy because of Tuesday’s data, and that more hikes in interest rates and reserve-ratio requirements were expected to follow. “The continued rise in the PMI input-prices index highlights the need to bring monetary conditions under control, but this will likely be balanced with Beijing’s fear about uncertainties in the global economy, pertaining to a demand shock triggered by the surge in oil prices,” said Tao. Aluminum Corp. of China      rose 2.1% in Shanghai but dropped 4% in Hong Kong. The company swung to a profit in 2010, though the figure fell short of expectations. In Hong Kong, heavyweight HSBC Holdings PLC    slumped 5.1% a day after it reported that 2010 net profit more than doubled to $13.2 billion, but also fell short of expectations. UBS said that rising costs for HSBC are becoming a concern, though loan growth and robust deposit momentum look compelling. “Rampant cost growth and a resolute unwillingness to discuss revenue prospects leave us without confidence in the 2011 outlook,” it said in a report. In afternoon trading in Mumbai, shares of Tata Motors    rose 4.4% and Maruti Suzuki  climbed 6.2% after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee on Monday didn’t raise excise duties on vehicles. Many investors had feared that the taxes would rise. The gains were also aided by news that the two auto makers’ February sales rose 12% and 15.5%, respectively, from a year earlier. 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s shares advanced Thursday evening after the retailing giant lifted its annual dividend, while Marvell Technology Group’s stock was hurt after the company’s quarterly results came in below expectations. Stock in Wal-Mart  recently gained 0.9% to $52.50 as the company said its board raised the annual dividend 21% to $1.46 a share from $1.21 a share. The new quarterly dividend of 36.5 cents a share will next be paid on April 4 to shareholders of record as of March 11. Marvell  shares fell 1.2% to $18. The chip maker, whose technology allows multiple computing processes to be combined into a single chipset, said fourth-quarter adjusted earnings were 40 cents a share. Revenue rose to $900.5 million from $842.5 million. Analysts had expected adjusted earnings of 42 cents a share, on revenue of $925.3 million, according to a consensus survey by FactSet Research. Net income at Marvell was $222.85 million, or 33 cents a share, up from $204.82 million, or 31 cents a share, for the year earlier period. In trading ahead of the late session, U.S. stocks jumped following a better-than-anticipated Labor Department report showing a decline in new unemployment claims last week. Stocks also rose as oil futures eased from loftier levels. Also, retail stocks performed well as a number of companies in the sector released February same-store sales results that exceeded expectations. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 191 points, or 1.6%, to 12,258.20. The S&P; 500 Index  climbed 1.7% to 1,330.97, and the Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 1.8% to 2,798.74. 
Energy stocks rose Thursday as Valero Energy Corp. jumped on the refiner’s bullish earnings outlook, and the broad equities market rallied. The Dow Jones Industrial Average vaulted 191 points as investors keyed on the number of first-time filings for jobless benefits last week falling to the lowest level since May 2008. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  gained 1.7% to 1,376, while the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  rose 1.7% to 293 and the NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  added 0.8% to 670. S&P; Equity Research on Thursday upgraded the energy sector to overweight from marketweight. Equity strategist Alec Young said the energy sector offers a “hedge against further negative geopolitical surprises” in the Middle East. “While our base case remains that the region’s political upheaval is unlikely to spread to the wealthier, major oil producing Gulf nations of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, given the inherently unpredictable nature of geopolitical events, this possibility cannot be ruled out, in our view,” Young said. Valero  said it expects first-quarter earnings of 15 cents to 30 cents a share. The estimate includes an after-tax loss of $348 million, or 61 cents a share, on forward sales of refined products, and related positions have closed and realized in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the one-time loss, Valero would earn 76 to 91 cents a share, well ahead of analysts’ consensus forecast of 48 cents in a survey by FactSet Research. Shares of Valero rallied 7.7% to $28.98 as the top gainer in the S&P; 500. Fellow refiner Tesoro Corp.  jumped 7.5%. Valero took a loss on hedges related to the widening spread in price between West Texas Intermediate crude oil and Brent Crude oil, company spokesman Bill Day said. In energy futures, the WTI crude contract traded near $101 a barrel, while Brent crude stood at more than $114 Also Thursday, Anadarko Petroleum  said an appraisal well in Ghana generated positive results. The company said it expects the area will be declared commercially viable later this year. Anadarko holds an 18% working interest in the deepwater Tano license; Tullow Oil  is the operator with a 49.9% interest and Kosmos Energy, which recently filed an initial public offering, has an 18% interest. Sabre Oil & Gas holds a 4% stake and Ghana National Petroleum Corp. owns 10%. Anadarko’s shares rose 2% to $82.33, within hailing distance of their 52-week high. 
U.S. stocks closed lower Monday with an analyst downgrade weighing on the technology sector and concerns over supply disruptions keeping oil prices elevated. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   sank 79.85 points, or 0.7%, to finish at 12,090.03. Weighing on the measure, Intel Corp.   shares shed 1.6% after Wells Fargo & Co. cut its view of the semiconductor sector to “market weight” from “overweight” for the first time in more than two years, though the firm said it was “a more moderate though still optimistic view of the sector.” Also, Cisco Systems Inc.  shares closed 1.1% lower. Boeing Co.  shares slid 1.3% after the company’s rival, European aircraft manufacturer Airbus, said Monday it is confident of maintaining global market share of commercial aircraft sales and expects continued expansion in air traffic demand in the Asia-Pacific region. The Nasdaq Composite Index   tumbled 1.4% to end at 2,745.63 as technology stocks lagged. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  shed 0.8% to 1,310.13. Within the S&P; 500, technology stocks led declines, while utilities stocks clung to slim gains. Among the technology sector’s decliners, JDS Uniphase Corp.  dropped 6.9%, Applied Materials Inc.   shed 4.6% and Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   lost 4.2%. The sector was hurt not only by the analyst downgrade but also by concerns over the impact on the sector from rising energy prices. “If you’re paying more for the transportation of your goods, you’re probably going to pay less for the technology that goes into moving your goods,” said John Canally, economist and investment strategist at LPL Financial. Crude-oil prices continued to climb, adding $1.02 to close at $105.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns remained over supply as opposition forces and soldiers loyal to Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi clashed near some of the country’s key energy installations. With no end in sight for the conflict, the oil market began to price in a much longer interruption to Libya’s production of 1.6 million barrels a day. “What people are beginning to focus on with oil is the economic weakness that could come from a sustained rise in oil prices,” said Brian Lazorishak, portfolio manager and quantitative analyst at Chase Investment Counsel. “It’s obviously a drag on consumer spending, it can be a drag on economic growth, and everybody feels like, while the economy is showing some good signs of a recovery, it’s kind of a fragile recovery.” Traders are particularly concerned about the situation in Saudi Arabia, where some have called for demonstrations later in the week. Societe Generale said in a research note that oil could reach $200 per barrel if supplies from Saudi Arabia were disrupted. “Saudi Arabia’s a much bigger deal on the price of crude than Libya,” said Russell Croft, co-manager of the Croft Value Fund. In Monday’s deal activity, Western Digital Corp.  shares rose 16% after the company agreed to acquire Hitachi’s hard-disk-drive business for about $4.3 billion in cash and stock, the two companies said Monday. Shares of radiation treatment firm TomoTherapy  soared 25% after Accuray , the maker of a robotic system designed to treat solid tumors, said it will buy TomoTherapy for $4.80 a share in cash and stock, or a total of around $277 million. Accuray fell 10%. Among other stocks in focus, Ciena Corp. shares fell 10% after the network systems company’s fiscal first-quarter loss widened as a surge in operating expenses masked a bigger-than-expected jump in revenue. Ciena also forecast current-quarter revenue below estimates. The U.S. dollar  weakened against the yen but traded slightly higher against the euro . The euro was trading recently at $1.3970, down from $1.3990 late Friday in New York. Demand for U.S. Treasurys fell, lifting yields on the 10-year note   up to 3.50%. Gold futures gained, with the April contract  closing at $1,434.50 an ounce. Data on January consumer credit released Monday from the Federal Reserve showed that consumers increased their debt in January, the fourth straight month of gains. 
The financial sector saw sharp losses along with the broader market Thursday as unrest in the Middle East and weekly jobless-claims data stoked fears about the economy. The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund  fell 2% while the Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 1.9% to close at 11,912. U.S. stocks fell deeper into negative territory following a report that Saudi Arabian police fired on protesters in the world’s largest crude-oil producer. Economic worries also weighed on the sector after it was reported that weekly jobless claims rose while last week’s figures were revised slightly higher. The U.S. trade deficit widened in January amid rising imports, according to a report Thursday. H&R; Block Inc.  was one of the few financial-services stocks to buck Thursday’s downward trend. The tax-services provider’s shares rallied 4.3% following solid quarterly results. Thursday’s weakness pushed the financial-sector ETF below its 50-day moving average, a closely watched technical indicator that has provided support during the rally. Within the Dow, all four financial components were off sharply with Travelers Cos.  sliding 1.5%. Bank of America Corp.  , J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  and American Express Co. were all down more than 2%. 
U.S. stock futures dropped Monday as investors continued to assess the financial impact of Friday’s devastating earthquake in Japan, while Lubrizol Corp. was in focus after news that it will be acquired by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 76 points to 11,989, and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  shed almost 10 points to 1,210.7. Nasdaq 100 futures  sank 18 points to 2,284.7. On Friday, U.S. markets recovered from early losses to close higher, as investors were relieved that large protests in Saudi Arabia failed to materialize and as materials companies gained on expectations that they could benefit from rebuilding efforts in Japan. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  ended the day up almost 60 points. Monday’s decline in stock futures came after Japan’s Nikkei 225 Average slumped 6.2% — its worst one-day performance in more than two years. Companies with links to the nuclear industry were among the hardest hit after a second explosion at a nuclear plant that was damaged by Friday’s earthquake. Shares of General Electric Co.  dropped 2.4% in premarket trading. The company designed all six of the reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant in Japan. Several uranium producers also fell heavily in U.S. premarket trading. Shares of Denison Mines Corp.  and Uranium Energy Corp.  dropped 24% and 18%, respectively, ahead of the open, and Uranerz Energy Corp.  fell 23%. Premarket gainers included stocks linked to renewable energy sources. The American depositary receipts of Renesola Ltd.  rose 10%, and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  rallied 12%. Shares of lubricants and fuel-additives producer Lubrizol  surged 28% on news that it will be bought by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway    in a $9.7 billion deal. No significant economic reports were slated for Monday, but Tuesday will bring the release of the latest policy statement from the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee. The dollar was trading slightly higher against the yen, but lower against the euro. The greenback rose 0.2% to ¥81.984, while the euro gained 0.4% to $1.3959. “All the focus is on Japan for the moment, and it’s easy to forget that at the same time, the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa continues,” said Simon Denham, head of Capital Spreads. “The pressure on [Libyan leader Moammar] Gadhafi took another step forward, with the Arab League now pushing for a no-fly zone.” Crude-oil prices continued to pull back from recent highs, falling below $100 a barrel in electronic trading. Light crude for April delivery fell $1.77 to $99.39 a barrel on Globex. Other stocks likely to be in focus Monday include Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Chevron Corp. , which are both holding analyst meetings. In other international markets, Germany’s DAX 30 index  dropped 0.9%, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Composite closed up 0.4%. 
OK, all you contrarian-oriented investors. Now’s the time to see if you actually walk the walk, not just talk the talk. You say that the time to buy is when the blood is running in the streets. Well, now would certainly seem to be just such a time, with gruesome and tragic reports from Japan dominating the news headlines. How many of you are stepping up to the plate to buy? A few of you, to be sure: The Dow Jones Industrial Average   did rally a hundred points Monday afternoon from its intraday low, closing down just 52 points. But only a few of you: Fear continues to dominate the market. The majority of investors are not stepping up to the plate to buy. One straw in the wind in this regard is the average recommended equity exposure among the shortest-term market timers tracked by the Hulbert Financial Digest (as measured by the Hulbert Stock Newsletter Sentiment Index, or HSNSI). Even prior to the devastating earthquake that struck Japan late last week, this average exposure level was not particularly high — and it has dropped even more in the wake of that tragedy. At the end of February, for example, the HSNSI stood at 58.2%. By last Thursday night, this benchmark had already dropped to 49.1% — and since then has dropped even further to 43%. This is a surprisingly big drop, given that the Dow — at least so far — is only about 3% below its bull-market high, hit in mid-February. This fear factor is even more in evidence among market timers who focus on just the Nasdaq market — an arena where the mood among retail investors particularly predominates. The Hulbert Nasdaq Newsletter Sentiment Index (HNNSI) currently stands at just 20%, down from 73% on the date of the market’s mid-February high. This retreat of the bulls is not what is normally seen at the beginning of a major decline. If the bull market had truly ended at its mid-February high, and sentiment adhered to the typical pattern, then the bulls would have stubbornly clung to their positions — if not actually increased them in the wake of the decline, treating the market’s weakness as a buying opportunity. This is what happened at the top of the bull market in March 2000, for example. In the wake of the Nasdaq’s first 10% correction then, believe it or not, average recommended exposure levels actually jumped markedly. This time around, in contrast, the market has dropped just 3% and, far from jumping, the HSNSI has dropped 15 percentage points and the HNNSI has dropped 53 percentage points. This doesn’t guarantee that the bull market still lives, of course. But it does mean that the sentiment winds, at least for the moment, are blowing in the direction of higher prices. 
Japan remained on high alert Tuesday after a third explosion rocked the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, but the situation appeared to be stabilizing with radiation levels coming down. While officials stressed it was still too early to say that the worst had been averted, they seemed to have regained a measure of control over the fast-evolving situation at the plant, where three explosions and a fire have occurred in the aftermath of Friday’s earthquake and tsunami. Radiation levels at the facility, though they remain elevated, have dropped sharply from earlier in the day, ruling out fears of continuing leaks on a massive scale. In the space of six hours, the dose rate at the main gate of the plant fell to 0.6 millisieverts per hour from 11.9 millisieverts per hour, the International Atomic Energy Agency said on its website, citing Japanese authorities. Earlier Tuesday, radiation increased to levels of 400 millisieverts per hour. Exposure to over 100 millisieverts a year is a level which can lead to cancer, according to the World Nuclear Association. About 150 people from around the Daiichi site have been monitored for radiation levels and measures to decontaminate 23 of them have been taken, the IAEA said. In Tokyo, where radiation reportedly soared to 23 times normal levels, earlier Tuesday, levels have also fallen sharply, the Wall Street Journal reported. Thirteen million people live in the Tokyo prefecture, and about 35 million in the greater Tokyo area including neighboring prefectures of Chiba, Kanagawa and Saitama. Despite the slump in radiation levels, there remain very serious concerns about the situation at Daiichi, with officials noting that the temperature at two remaining reactors, No.5 and No.6 — which were not operating at the time of the earthquake— rose slightly, the Wall Street Journal reported. In additional, storage ponds situated on the roof of the reactors and loaded with spent uranium fuel rods appear to be becoming more of an issue. Plant officials announced on Tuesday evening that they were preparing to use helicopters to douse one of the ponds with cold water to prevent it from catching fire, the New York Times reported. Water in the pond is believed to be boiling and the fear is that it will eventually evaporate, exposing the still radioactive fuel rods. Meanwhile, a new earthquake, of a 6.1 magnitude, also shook the country Tuesday, adding to the atmosphere of concern. It was located 72 miles southwest of Tokyo and 25 miles northeast of Shizuoka, Honshu, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Earlier Tuesday, as radiation levels spiked, Prime Minister Naoto Kan ordered everyone within 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) of the plant, located 160 miles north of Tokyo, to evacuate and advised those within 30 kilometers to stay indoors and conserve supplies. In a brief television address, he pleaded for calm as he warned of “substantial” radiation leaks. “The authorities are clearly doing the right thing by evacuating people from the area surrounding the plant and stopping the consumption of food stocks from the area,” said Richard Wakeford, a professor at the University of Manchester and an expert in radiation exposure. The biggest risk to the population is that radioactive iodine could get into their system, raising the risk of thyroid cancer. To counter that risk, tablets containing stable iodine can be taken, and would prevent the body from absorbing the radioactive version, he added. 
The U.S. financial sector dropped more than 1% Tuesday as global markets were hit by worries Japan is facing a major nuclear disaster and lingering unrest in the Middle East. The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund  fell 1.2% in following its nearly 1% drop the previous session. Radiation levels were above normal in the Tokyo area as all eyes focused on the troubled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant following the massive earthquake and tsunami. Aflac Inc.  was the second-biggest percentage decliner among S&P; 500 Index components with a 5.6% loss. Elsewhere in the insurance sector, shares of MetLife Inc.   fell 3% and Prudential Financial Inc.  lost 1.9%. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  shares fell 4.6%. Aflac shares suffered further declines Tuesday following a 3% setback the previous session — the company is the largest seller of cancer insurance in Japan. In U.S. economic news, the Federal Reserve on Tuesday held steady on interest rates and its $600 billion bond-buying program. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  pared deeper losses, but finished with a decline of 137 points, or 1.2%, with Bank of America Corp.   seeing the biggest loss for financial components.. Its shares fell 1.9%. J.P. Morgan & Chase Co.  shares declined 1.5%, American Express Co.  fell 0.6% and Travelers Cos.  slid 0.6%. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. on Tuesday said it approved a rule that would allow it to wind down troubled big banks. “Today’s action is another significant step toward leveling the competitive playing field and enforcing market discipline on all financial institutions, no matter their size. Under Dodd-Frank, the shareholders and creditors will bear the cost of any failure, not taxpayers,” said FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair in a statement. 
Japanese shares rebounded to lead most Asian markets higher Wednesday as cheap stock valuations attracted buyers after a hefty recent selloff despite fears about high radiation levels at an earthquake-damaged nuclear complex. Japan’s top government spokesman said radiation levels had again spiked Wednesday morning at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, but added that radiation levels fell shortly afterward and there was no need to expand the evacuation area around the plant based on current data. Strong aftershocks and a short supply of daily essentials at some retail counters also kept the nation on edge. The Nikkei Stock Average , which slumped 10.6% on Tuesday for its biggest one-day drop since October 2008, recouped some of those losses to finish 5.7% higher. “It appears that equity markets in the region have been hit so hard that they are oversold,” said Macquarie Private Wealth division director Martin Lakos. “But the markets are going to react to whatever news comes out of Japan. This is about risk aversion rather than fundamental values or the impact on global growth.” Elsewhere, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  rose 0.7%, South Korea’s Kospi advanced 1.8%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index  gained 0.1% and China’s Shanghai Composite  ended 1.2% higher while India’s Sensex  climbed 1.4% by mid-afternoon. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures added 26 points in screen trade. “There appears to be some hedge fund buy-backs following [Tuesday’s] panic-selling” in Japan, said Cosmo Securities equity strategist Toshikazu Horiuchi. But he cautioned, “unless the nuclear-power plant issues are resolved, the reconstruction efforts will not be able to start and only then can we gauge the impact [of the earthquake] on earnings.” Technology shares rebounded sharply after a punishing selloff earlier this week as investors shifted their attention to the earnings prospects of companies less affected by the earthquake, said Kenichi Hirano, operating officer at Tachibana Securities. Sony Corp.    added 8.8% and Sharp Corp.    rose 7.3%. Hitachi Ltd.    jumped 16.6% despite being known as a nuclear-power-plant maker. “The earnings contributions from its nuclear-power business are relatively small,” Hirano said. Auto makers and tire makers soared, with Toyota Motor Corp.    rising 9.1% and Mazda Motor Corp.    adding 8.3%. Bridgestone Corp. advanced 7% as it restarted production at domestic plants closed due to power cuts. “It will take time until we accurately know the impact on corporate earnings,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Chuo Mitsui Asset Management, adding that a continuation of power cuts will have a longer-term impact on output. But some analysts remained positive in their stocks’ outlook. Those at Credit Suisse said they haven’t altered their overweight view on Japanese equities and that after Tuesday’s steep fall, the stocks were cheaper than in global markets. Tokyo Electric Power Co.    was one stock that didn’t participate in the day’s rally. The company, which owns and operates the damaged nuclear plant, slumped another 24.7%, on top of its 42% plunge in the previous two sessions. 
Japan’s nuclear crisis showed no signs of abating Wednesday as radiation levels forced the military to at least temporarily scrap a plan to use helicopters to drop water on reactors, and observers overseas said the situation may grow more dire. Reflecting the uncertainty caused by the crisis, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 266 points, wiping out its gains for 2011. At the stricken Fukushima Daiichi power plant, workers faced a new fire and a possible breach of another reactor’s containment system. Testifying in Congress, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the United States believes a “partial meltdown” took place at the plant, but he also said he didn’t want to speculate about events there. “The site is effectively out of control,” Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger told a European Parliament committee, according to news reports. “In coming hours there could be further catastrophic events which could pose a threat to the lives of people on the island.” As the international community reacted to the crisis, overseas governments urged foreigners to avoid the area, according to reports. The United States urged citizens within 80 kilometers, or 50 miles of the plant, to evacuate or remain indoors, increasing its evacuation-zone recommendation by 30 kilometers. French Prime Minister Francois Fillon told the National Assembly that compatriots with no reason to stay in Tokyo should travel to southern Japan or return to France, reports said. The Chinese government suspended approval of new nuclear-power plants until safety standards can be reviewed and revised, according to media reports. The State Council also has required relevant departments to conduct safety checks at existing plants, Xinhua News Agency said. Meanwhile, the official death toll from Japan’s 9.0-magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami last week now totals 4,277, with 8,194 unaccounted for, the National Police Agency of Japan said on its website. An additional 2,282 people are listed as injured. Yukiya Amano, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, characterized the situation at the plant as “very serious,” and said he planned to fly to Japan from Vienna, according to reports. Outside of the nuclear disaster, the insured losses from the earthquake and tsunami may reach $25 billion, catastrophe-modeling firm Eqecat said. Earlier Wednesday, a fire broke out at the No. 4 reactor of the nuclear complex, but the IAEA said it was no longer observable a half-hour later. Japan’s National Police Agency is dispatching a water cannon to help cool the No. 4 reactor, NHK reported. Meanwhile, a mission by Japan’s Self Defense Force to drop water on the Fukushima No. 3 reactor by helicopter was at least temporarily abandoned because of high radiation levels; also, the hole in the roof isn’t directly above the reactor’s fuel-storage pool, according to reports. The International Atomic Energy Agency reported plans may still be under way to use helicopters to drop water onto Unit 3 and spray water onto Unit 4 from the ground. Debris may need to be removed before the spraying takes place, the agency added. 
Fears over Japan’s nuclear crisis sent U.S. stocks into a broad swoon Wednesday, turning the S&P; 500 and Nasdaq Composite lower for the year, as evacuation warnings spurred investor worries of meltdowns and a radiation catastrophe. The Dow Jones Industrial Average , down nearly 300 points at its low, finished with a loss of 242.12 points, or 2.04%, at 11,613.3. It lost 2011 gains at one point but managed to end up 0.3% for the year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index  ended down 24.99, or 1.95%, at 1256.88, sinking to a yearly loss of 0.06%. The Nasdaq Composite  fell into the red for 2011 and stayed there, closing down 50.51, or 1.89%, at 2616.82. In the mounting crisis, the Pentagon said it ordered U.S. military personnel to stay at least 50 miles from a crippled Japanese nuclear plant, while the U.S. nuclear chief said radiation levels were “extremely high” at one of the reactors and recommended evacuations within a “much larger radius” than Japan’s government has called for. Stocks staged large swings on seemingly every comment and warning from top officials, underlining the deep current of anxiety among investors. “There’s just a complete vacuum here in terms of credible information on the status of the nuclear situation in Japan,” Phil Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors said. “Japan trumps everything for everyone right now [and] every investment decision is made through the prism of what is going on in Japan.” Late in the session, Tokyo Electric Power Co.  said it was close to completing a new power line that could restore electricity to the damaged Fukushima Daiichi complex and possibly avert a meltdown, according to news reports, helping stocks recover some losses. The losses started to pile late morning after the European Union’s commissioner for energy said that one of Japan’s nuclear plants is “effectively out of control,” and that the situation could continue to deteriorate. Volume was robust, with about 5.2 billion shares changing hands in late afternoon New York Stock Exchange composite volume. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX  , soared as much as 29% intraday in a sign of the market’s anxieties. In the U.S., disappointing data on housing starts showed the steepest monthly drop in nearly 27 years and new building permits set a record low, an indication that the battered sector continues to be a source of weakness for the economy. But the crisis in Japan, plus renewed tensions in the Middle East, set the tone of trading. “Everyone’s nervous about Japan,” said Dave Rovelli, managing director of U.S. equity trading at Canaccord Genuity. “There’s concerns about a complete nuclear meltdown. Now it’s starting to look like a panic situation.” In the Middle East, Bahraini security forces carried out a violent crackdown against protesters to drive them from the center of the capital Manama, imposing a curfew across much of the city, as the island kingdom attempted to end weeks of demonstrations. 
Most Asian markets ended lower in nervous trading Thursday as Japan struggled to deal with the aftermath of a devastating earthquake, although hopes that the authorities may bring a radiation-leaking nuclear facility under control helped to trim stock losses. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  , which had dropped as much as 5% at one point, narrowed those losses to end 1.4% lower at 8,962.67. Asian stock and currency markets were roiled in early trade as equities on Wall Street tumbled after Greg Jaczko, chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said the risk of radiation was more serious than Japanese officials had outlined in public, and recommended a “much larger radius” for evacuations. But the markets recovered as the day progressed amid Japan’s latest attempt to cool down the reactors, with Japan’s Self Defense Forces dropping sea water on the overheated units Thursday morning. The nation’s nuclear safety agency said power cables from an outside source would be made available in an initiative, which if successful, would offer a better chance of cooling the reactors. “There will be further relief for the markets if we can confirm this measure will lead to an actual drop in temperatures” at the reactor, said Toshikazu Horiuchi, an equity strategist at Cosmo Securities. Among Asia’s main indexes, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  dropped 0.1% to 4,555.30, China’s Shanghai Composite  fell 1.1% to 2,897.30, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  slid 1.8% to 22,284.43 and Taiwan’s Taiex gave up 0.5% to 8,282.69. Managing to rebound from earlier losses, South Korea’s Kospi added 0.1% to end at 1,959.03. The Sensex  slipped 1.2% to 18,138.35, taking the Reserve Bank of India’s 0.25 percentage point increase in lending rates — a move that was widely expected — in stride. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were recently up 80 points in screen trade. Japanese stocks also owed the recovery to a steep retreat in the yen, after the Japanese currency rose to a record high of 76.25 to a U.S. dollar very early in Asia. The retreat came on expectation that Japanese authorities would intervene to support the dollar and protect the nation’s exporters from the impact of a stronger local currency. “Investors are regaining calmness as panic-driven selling in dollar-yen eases while the nuclear situation looks less dire,” said Kazuhiro Takahashi, general manager of investment strategy at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. Among major declining stocks, Canon Inc.    dropped 3.3%, Toyota Motor Corp.    shed 2.2%, Fanuc Ltd.    gave up 4%, Fast Retailing Co.    slid 3.1% and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group    sank 4.7%. Tokyo Electric Power Co.   , operator of the troubled nuclear power facility, fell 13.4%, bringing this week’s total losses so far to 62.4%. 
Nike Inc. shares fell late Thursday after the athletic footwear giant’s quarterly earnings came in below what Wall Street had forecast, and Walt Disney Co. shares slipped after a report that the company has temporarily suspended store operations in Japan’s capital. Nike  shares were down 6.2% to $80.14 in heavy volume. The company posted a rise in fiscal third-quarter profit to $523 million, or $1.08 a share, but analysts polled by FactSet Research were looking for $1.12 a share. In the year-ago period, Nike earned $497 million, or $1.01 a share. Sales in the most recent period rose 7% to $5 billion. Wall Street expected revenue of $5.18 billion. Nike also said its gross margin fell 110 basis points to 45.8% as the cost to make and ship its products rose. Futures orders for its branded athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from March through July, totaled $7.9 billion, 11% higher than the year-ago period, it said. LDK Solar Co. shares  fell 0.9% to $12.39, losing earlier advances after the solar-wafer maker said it swung to a fourth-quarter profit of $145.2 million, or $1.09 per American Depositary share. It lost $24.3 million, or 22 cents per ADS, in the same quarter a year ago. Revenue surged to $920.9 million from $304.6 million a year earlier. Analysts had forecast earnings of 91 cents a share on revenue of $838.2 million. Late Thursday, The Wall Street Journal reported on its website that Disney has temporarily suspended store operations in Tokyo in the wake of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan last week. Disney’s  late-traded shares shed 0.2% to $40.67. It’s not clear how many employees are affected by the move but Disney had closed 28 of its 47 Disney Stores in the country to assess damage, the newspaper said. Tokyo Disneyland, which is run by a different company under license from Disney, has been closed since last week. Meanwhile, shares of Cost Plus Inc.  fell 7.4% to $10 in light volume. The specialty retailer forecast a first-quarter loss from continuing operations of 22 cents to 28 cents a share on revenue of $196 million to $200 million. For its fourth quarter, profit rose to $28.5 million, or $1.23 a share, from $21.1 million, or 95 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenue rose to $341.6 million from $319 million a year ago. There were no published consensus estimates for Cost Plus by FactSet Research or Thomson Reuters. In trading ahead of the late session, U.S. stocks finished higher following steep losses in the previous session. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 1.4% to 11,774.59. The S&P; 500 Index   rose 1.3% to 1,273.72 and Nasdaq Composite  gained 0.7% to 2,636.05. 
Caterpillar Inc. on Friday warned of possible global production delays beyond those incurred at the company’s facilities in Japan following the region’s devastating earthquake last week. Up to this point, Caterpillar , a manufacturer poised to play a key role in the rebuilding of Japan, said that supply-chain disruptions in Japan have yet to hurt production outside the shaken country. However, factories around the world “may be sporadically impacted as a result of the situation in Japan,” the company said in a statement. Facilities in Tokyo, Akashi and Sagami weren’t not damaged by the 9.0-magnitude quake but did suffer some production delays despite being outside the mandatory evacuation zone. The plants in Akashi and Sagami build hydraulic excavators, while the Tokyo office serves as headquarters for Caterpillar Japan. Overall, the company employs about 5,000 workers in the country. Caterpillar also said it is actively developing other sources for parts supplied out of Japan as a back-up measure should the need arise. Caterpillar shares rose 1.9% to finish at $105.48 to take part in a broad market rebound Friday. The stock, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average , has surged 76% in the past year. With the Dow still lingering in negative territory overall since the disaster, Caterpillar has managed to rise 7% in the past week. Global industrial firms are still assessing the impact of the devastation in Japan, but supply-chain disruptions have begun taking a global toll. General Motors Co.  announced on Thursday that it will suspend production at its Shreveport, La. assembly plant. A day earlier, Standard & Poor’s Equity Research analyst Michael Jaffe pointed to Caterpillar as one of the company’s primed to capitalize as Japan’s picks up the pieces. “The major rebuilding effort that will need to take place should eventually benefit companies that make building materials and construction equipment,” he said. Jaffe noted that, of the stocks he covers, Caterpillar has the largest footprint in the Asia-Pacific region. The company, with 110 plants out around the world, moved its regional headquarters from Tokyo to Beijing more than four years ago. 
International Business Machines shares slipped late Friday, reversing course from the day session during which investors learned the technology-sector heavyweight agreed to settle a regulator’s claim that it improperly gave gifts to officials in two Asian countries. Evening-traded shares of IBM  fell 36 cents, or 0.2%, to $155.53 in active trade. Stock in IBM finished the regular session up 1.1%. Earlier Friday, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a complaint accusing IBM of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in connection with alleged payments of cash, travel and entertainment to government officials in South Korea and China from 1998 to 2009. IBM agreed to pay penalties and fees, totaling $10 million, as part of a settlement with the SEC. The agreement must still be approved by a court. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks rose, with sentiment lifted by a coordinated effort by several central banks to help Japan deal with the earthquake aftermath, and plans by several major banks to hike dividends. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 84 points, or 0.7%, at 11,858.52. The S&P; 500   rose 5 points, or 0.4%, to 1,279.21. The Nasdaq Composite  gained 8 points, or 0.3%, to 2,643.67. The Dow fell 1.5% for the week and the S&P; 500 lost 1.9%. The Nasdaq sank 2.7%. 
Technology stocks ended mostly higher on Monday, powered by gains in shares of Microsoft Corp., Intel Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. Microsoft  rose 2.1% to close at $25.33, while Intel   added 1.3% to close at $20.19 and Cisco   gained 1.4% to close at $17.39. The three stocks joined the top gainers on the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The Dow  moved up 178 points. Shares of EMC Corp.  also jumped 3.7% to close at $26.58 after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its conviction buy list. “We believe networked storage will continue to enjoy secular tailwinds throughout 2011, and we believe EMC is well positioned to capture the lion’s share of this market’s growth,” analyst Bill Shope said in a March 20 note. These gains set the stage for an upbeat start to the week for the tech sector, as the Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 1.8% to close at 2,692. The Morgan Stanley High Tech 35 Index   rose 1.55%, while the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index  rose 1.8%. Other major tech stocks posted gains, including Apple Inc.  , Oracle Corp.  and IBM Corp.   
Shares of petroleum producers led gains in the energy sector on Wednesday, as U.S. gasoline supplies fell and oil prices solidified in the $105-a-barrel range. The NYSE Arca Oil index  rose 0.4% to 1,349. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas index  ended flat at 679. The Philadelphia Oil Service index  rose 0.1% to 288. On the geopolitical front, military strikes continued against Libya. The New York Times reported that a small bomb exploded at a crowded bus stop in Jerusalem, killing at least one person. Political turmoil was reported in Syria. Nymex crude-oil futures rose 0.7% to settle at $105.75 a barrel. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 67 points, after falling earlier in the day. Energy stocks on the move included independent refiner Valero Energy Corp. , which rose 2.6%. The Energy Information Administration said crude oil supplies rose by 2.1 million barrels, in line with the estimate in a poll of analysts by Platts. Gasoline supplies fell by 5.3 million barrels, greater than the forecast of 2 million. Among stocks in the spotlight, ConocoPhillips  rose 1.7%. The Houston oil-and-gas company laid out plans to boost production by 2% to 3% a year starting in 2013 after a current plan to sell off assets and boost capital spending. 
Financial stocks were the weakest sector Wednesday while the broad indicators were mixed after a major U.S. bank said plans to raise its dividend are on hold for now. The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund  dropped 0.3% in afternoon trade with Bank of America Corp. weighing on the sector after the company said the Federal Reserve rebuffed a planned dividend hike. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 0.6% higher while the S&P; 500 Index  added 0.3%.  Shares of Bank of America Corp.  slid 1.7%. The banking giant in a filing said the Fed rejected its plan to raise its dividend in the second half of 2011. Several banks recently boosted their dividends and share buybacks following the Fed’s second round of lender stress tests. Of the 10 banks that underwent the stress tests, Bank of America is “the first example we have where the Fed basically rejected a plan,” Evercore Partners said in a note. Shares of Citigroup  declined 0.5%. Regional bank suffered the most however, with Zion Bancorp.  leading losses among the subsector, down 2.5%. In other banking news, a top regulator scolded lenders over controversial overdraft fees. Discover Financial Services  was among the few gainers among large-cap financial stocks Wednesday after the company reported a quarterly profit and hiked its dividend. Discover shares rallied 5.4%. In economic news, the Commerce Department said sales of new U.S. homes plunged about 17% in February to a record low. “Given that the latter half of February is only the beginning of the selling season, we are not overly concerned about today’s metric,” Ticonderoga Securities analyst Stephen East said in a report. “Should we see the same type of result in March, certainly we will be much concerned.” 
 By , MarketWatch NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Shares of petroleum and natural gas producers led gains in energy stocks on Thursday, as the broad equities market rose and crude oil prices remained near $106 a barrel. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  rose 0.5% to 1,357. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  added 0.7% to 684. The Philadelphia Oil Service Index  rose 0.5% to 289. Crude oil prices ended the session lower by 0.1% to settle at $105.60 a barrel, as attacks on Libya continued. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 85 points. With oil now breaking through $106 a barrel and no end in sight to conflicts in Libya, Syria and elsewhere, Wall Street is bidding up shares of many energy companies. Earlier this week, Oppenheimer analysts warned that a major supply disruption in the Middle East could propel oil prices above the record of $148 a barrel set in 2008, but a price below $120 a barrel appears more likely. “We think oil prices will remain inflated by concerns over potential supply disruptions, especially with the turmoil in the Middle East, as well as continued financial speculation,” Oppenheimer analyst Fadel Gheit wrote Wednesday in a note to clients. Just about a month ago, oil was near $85 a barrel. That was before the Japanese earthquake, airstrikes in Libya and, now, renewed jitters about the European sovereign-debt crisis, rocked commodity markets. Gheit said nearly all energy companies make positive cash flow when oil is $80 or higher. At a price of $100 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate Crude and natural gas prices of $4 per million cubic foot for natural gas, Chevron  will generate 2011 earnings of $25.9 billion, up from $19 billion in 2010, Gheit wrote. ConocoPhillips  will make about $11.6 billion, about flat with its 2010 earnings of $11.4 billion, according to Gheit, while Exxon Mobil  would earn $42.7 billion, up from $30.5 billion in 2010. Shares of Exxon Mobil rose 0.2% on Thursday. Chevron fell 0.1% and ConocoPhillips rose 1.5%. 
U.S. stock futures were pointing to a slightly higher start for Wall Street Monday, as investors turned their attention to a heavy week of economic data and to crude prices after Libyan rebels took control of key oil towns over the weekend. Stock-index futures added a sliver to already light gains after economic data showed a rise in consumer spending and incomes in February, with purchases up 0.7% and income up 0.3%. “Today’s data specifically did not capture much of the energy-price spike in late February,” noted Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 12 points to 12,182, while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  gained 1.3 points to 1,311.3. Nasdaq 100 futures  added 6.75 points to 2,323.75. On Friday, U.S. stocks climbed for a third session, helped by the technology sector and upbeat economic-growth data. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 3.1% last week. Observers said geopolitical news is taking a back seat to a heavy slate of U.S. economic data this week. Still ahead for Monday, pending home sales for February are due at 10 a.m. Eastern. Later in the day, Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, will speak at the University of South Carolina. The week will finish with nonfarm payrolls and the ISM manufacturing index, both due for release on Friday. “For the moment, the market is focusing on the economy,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners Inc. “The market continues to defy the geopolitical concerns and the European debt crisis along with the situation in Japan.” “I think part of that probably comes at the expense of the bond market. A lot of the money coming out of bonds is flowing into equities now,” said Cardillo. Shares of Eastman Kodak Co.  jumped 14% in premarket trading. On Friday, the U.S. International Trade Commission said it will review a patent decision that ruled Apple Inc.  and Research In Motion Ltd.  didn’t infringe Kodak’s digital-camera patents. Alcatel-Lucent SA’s    shares rose 7.1% before the bell. Goldman Sachs upgraded the telecom-equipment maker to buy from neutral. Goldman also lifted its rating on mobile-phone maker Nokia Corp.    to buy from neutral, saying the company is now in a period of “maximum uncertainty, creating a long-term opportunity for value investors.” The analysts also said the market was being too pessimistic over Nokia’s recent joint venture with Microsoft Corp. . Shares of Nokia rose 3.8% in premarket trading. U.S.-listed shares of AstraZeneca PLC    could be active after the company lifted its earnings-per-share guidance for 2011 due to a lower effective tax rate as a result of a tax arrangement reached by U.S. and U.K. authorities. The company said core earnings are now seen in the range of $6.90 to $7.20 a share, up from the previously projected $6.45 to $6.75 a share. European stocks traded mostly higher, though shares of Philips Electronics NV    stumbled after the company warned of losses for its television unit. Asian markets were broadly weaker. In Tokyo, the Nikkei Stock Average  pared losses and closed slightly lower as efforts to stabilize the struggling Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant were hampered by high levels of radiation. Crude oil for May delivery  fell $1.31 to $104.09 a barrel in Globex electronic trading. Over the weekend, rebel forces in Libya regained control of key oil towns, helping to reassure markets that crude exports could see a fast restart if Col. Moammar Gadhafi’s regime collapses. Gold for May delivery  dropped $13.20 to $1,413 an ounce. The U.S. dollar was higher against the Japanese yen at ¥81.71 but down slightly against the euro at $1.4048. 
Shares of U.S. financial firms closed lower on Monday after spending most of the day in positive territory, with NYSE Euronext and some major banks drawing most of the attention. Exchange operator NYSE Euronext  ranked among the biggest gainers following a news report that two rival exchanges are still exploring a joint bid to challenge an NYSE buyout by Germany’s Deutsche Boerse. Shares of NYSE closed up 2.6%. The Wall Street Journal reported that IntercontinentalExchange Inc.   and Nasdaq OMX Inc.  are hung up on deciding a price for their prospective counterbid for the owner of the New York Stock Exchange. The report, citing people familiar with the situation, further said that the pair believes they will have to bid at least $40 a share. Last month, NYSE Euronext agreed to be acquired by Deutsche Boerse. Bank of America   and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , both part of the Dow Jones Industrial Average  , edged higher after news that the two are among a group of five large lenders whose executives will meet regulators this week in Washington. The parties involved in home-loan-service settlement talks have been summoned for a face-to-face meeting with state and federal regulators, the first since a proposed settlement leaked out. The five banks are expected to discuss a 27-page “term sheet” that state attorneys general and federal regulators sent to lenders earlier this month, according to a spokesman for Iowa Attorney-General Tom Miller, who is heading up the state efforts. The meeting was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. The other three institutions said to be part of the meeting with regulators are Citigroup Inc. , Wells Fargo & Co.   and Ally Financial . In the broader sector, the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500 , fell 0.3% to close at 16.29 points Monday. 
There’s a lot of uncertainty whether the market’s 25% run since July is flagging or if the bulls are picking up momentum once more. But as volume remains fairly weak on Wall Street amid continued geopolitical unrest, government debt fears at home and abroad, and overall economic uncertainty, it’s hard even for the most sophisticated trader to tell how things will shake out. So what’s a regular investor to do? Well, if your investment goal is simply to steadily grow (and protect) your retirement savings, now is the time to take a serious look at dividend stocks. For stock pickers constantly seeking the next Netflix Inc.  in order to double their cash quickly, getting a few pennies on the dollar in dividends sounds like a waste of time. But many of us aren’t trying to turn $10,000 into $100,000 by the end of the year — to us, a “sleepy” stock that provides 10% annual returns like clockwork is a solid investment, and one we’re happy to own. If this describes your strategy, then high-paying dividend stocks should be a key part of your portfolio. If you can get a stock that returns 7% of your investment via dividends each year, you could beat the market handily even if shares don’t pop impressively. By way of example, here are seven solid dividend stocks to consider for your portfolio. This diverse list covers everything from tobacco and drug companies to telecom and oil, and averages a dividend yield of over 7% per pick. While Big Pharma is indeed underperforming the market over the past year or so due to fears over expiring patents and generic competition, there is still some long-term potential in the sector’s low valuations and big dividends. Take Astra Zeneca , trading with a forward P/E of just 7.3, the lowest among pharmaceutical majors. Though AZN dividends are tricky to track, with a big payment in March and a smaller payment in September, based on the last two payouts the yield is a plump 5.5%. Now that a ban on menthol cigarettes is “unlikely” following an study by the Food and Drug Administration, tobacco giant Lorillard  is cruising near a new 52-week high. But even after a nearly 25% surge in shares over the past two weeks, the company still trades at the lowest forward P/E of its peers, at just 11.7 times future earnings. Add in projected revenue growth of over 13% this year and a profit forecast over 10% above 2010 totals and this tobacco giant is a very safe bet. More importantly for income investors, this steady growth means the 5.7% dividend yield is safe — even after two significant increases to the payout since August. On March 28, after the T-Mobile  deal was announced, Robert W. Baird upped its rating on AT&T;  from “neutral” to “outperform” and boosted its price target from $30 to $34 a share. That gives shares the possibility of a 13% upside above current valuations. Throw in a dividend yield of 5.8% — the best out of all 30 Dow Jones components — and you have a compelling case to dial up AT&T.; Even if the merger runs into a snag, there’s no denying that both T-Mobile and the struggling Sprint Nextel Corp.   will never pose a serious threat to this telecom stock. 
Is the third time a charm? It certainly looks that way Friday morning, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  finally surpassing its February closing high of 12,391.25 — after having failed to do so in its two previous attempts. In fact, if the Dow can hold on through the close and remain above that previous high, then the venerable Dow Theory will have flashed an all-clear signal for the market. The Dow Theory, of course, is the oldest stock-market-timing system that is still in widespread use. It focuses on the action of both the Dow industrials and the Dow Jones Transportation Average . Dow Theorists focus particular attention on how these two benchmarks behave after any market correction. It’s considered a bearish omen if either or both fail to surpass their pre-correction highs, and it’s an all-clear signal when both eclipse their respective highs. Friday is the third consecutive day in which the market has come close to generating such an all-clear signal. The transports finally surpassed their previous high as of Thursday’s close, and the industrials came awfully close on both Wednesday and Thursday — though in each case, they fell short by the close. Many would have found it disappointing if the Dow Jones Industrial Average went into the weekend having failed a third time. For now, at least, it looks as though the bulls can save their disappointment for something else. — 
Canadian stocks closed higher Friday, with the benchmark index marking a weekly gain of 0.7%, finding support after the U.S. reported better-than-expected nonfarm-payrolls data as strength in oil prices provided a lift to oil-related shares. The S&P;/TSX Composite Index  tacked on 0.1% to finish at 14,130.15. It closed out last week at 14,039.39. In currencies trading, the U.S. dollar  bought 96.38 Canadian cents, down from 97.00 Canadian cents late Thursday. The Canadian dollar is “benefiting from a risk-on environment following nonfarm payrolls and stronger manufacturing data out of China, and the direction is in keeping with our view that [Canadian dollar vs. U.S. dollar trade] is forecast to rise to eight full cents above parity into next year,” said Derek Holt, vice president at Scotia Capital Economics, in emailed comments. Strength in Canada’s benchmark index reflected gains in the U.S. stock market, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 0.5%. The U.S. Labor Department said Friday that nonfarm payrolls grew by a seasonally adjusted 216,000 in March, their fastest pace since last May. In a preliminary report Thursday, Statistics Canada said average Canadian weekly earnings of nonfarm payroll employees rose 4.2% in January from a year ago. The number of payroll employees rose 1.9% in January from the same time a year earlier, data showed, but nonfarm payroll employment fell by 5,700 in January from December. Oil-related shares were among the advancers Friday with oil prices in New York logging gains for the week. Imperial Oil Ltd.     closed up 2.2% and Enbridge Inc.    rose 1.3%, but Talisman Energy Inc.    pulled back from earlier gains to end 0.5% lower. HudBay Minerals Inc.    also saw its stock rise 2.2% in Toronto after the miner announced Thursday a near quadrupling of metals reserves. But shares of gold companies moved lower as gold prices fell by $11 an ounce. Shares of Eldorado Gold Corp.    fell 3.1% and Goldcorp Inc.    lost 1.9%. Shares of EXFO Inc.    sank 25% after the Canadian telecom-equipment maker reported second-quarter revenue below Wall Street’s expectations and forecast disappointing third-quarter results. 
Major Latin American equity markets climbed Friday, opening the second quarter of the year bolstered by a report of improving labor-market conditions in the U.S., the world’s largest economy. The higher finishes capped a winning week for stock markets in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Argentina, advancing as Wall Street embraced a better-than-expected monthly jobs report from the U.S. Labor Department. U.S. nonfarm payrolls grew by a seasonally adjusted 216,000 in March, their fastest pace since last May. The unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.8%. The payrolls figure was more than the 185,000 increase expected by economists surveyed by MarketWatch. The “stellar” March payrolls report “injects confidence that the private sector can carry greater weight of the U.S. recovery, given that monetary and fiscal stimuli are set to peak this year,” Lena Komileva, global head of Group of 10 strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, told clients Friday. “This reinforces the ‘flight to yield’ trade which has underpinned the remarkable resilience of global risk rally.“ Also, the improved labor dynamics “do not challenge expectations that the [U.S. Federal Reserve] will complete asset purchases in June, but will encourage the market to look beyond QE2, paving the way to a cyclical dollar recovery,” Komileva added. QE2 refers to quantitative easing, the Fed’s current monetary policy. On Wall Street, the S&P; 500 Index  rose 0.5% to 1,332.41 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average   gained 50 points, or 0.5%, to 12,376.72. Investors in Brazilian assets also received upbeat data on Friday, with industrial production in February expanding a seasonally adjusted 1.9% from the previous month. The figure was the highest since March 2010, according to Brazilian statistics agency IBGE. Industrial production grew 6.9% in February from the year-ago period. Market expectations were for year-over-year growth of 4.6%, according to UBS. In Sao Paulo, the Bovespa equity index posted its fourth straight win. It closed up 1% at 69,268.29, with shares of oil giant Petrobras higher by 1.4% as May crude-oil futures rose 1.1% to $107.94 a barrel, the highest settlement since late September. Separately, Petrobras said Friday it purchased petrochemicals company Innova SA from its subsidiary in Argentina for $332 million. Petrobras said the move will in part allow Petrobras Argentina  to concentrate its business in Argentina. Meanwhile, preferred and voting shares of mining giant Vale    each fell 0.6%. The world’s largest iron-ore miner said Chief Executive Roger Agnelli will be leaving the company. The move comes after media reports indicated that the government pushed for Agnelli’s departure because it wanted an executive who would work toward its policy goals, such as boosting spending on projects within Brazil. The selection of a new CEO is expected to take place on Monday by Vale’s controlling shareholders, and the board of directors will debate the matter on Thursday, according to a report late Friday on the online edition of The Wall Street Journal. For the week, the Bovespa index rose 2.2%, its third straight week of gains. Mexico’s IPC  closed up 2.7%, building on last week’s rise of 3.9%. The index on Friday rose 0.9% to 37,775.07. Argentina’s Merval   ended Friday up 2.5% at 3,471.95, advancing for the fourth consecutive day. It closed up for a second straight week, rising by 3.7%. Chile’s IPSA  picked up 1.9% on Friday to 4,712.85, finishing the week up 2.7%. 
U.S. stock markets closed higher for the week, rising on the first day of the second quarter on the back of strength in the tech and financial sectors and cheering better than expected day on rising employment. For the week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  added add 1.3%, the Nasdaq Composite  rose 1.7% and the S&P; 500  climbed 1.4%. Nonfarm payrolls grew by a seasonally adjusted 216,000 in March, their fastest pace since last May, the Labor Department said Friday, in an indication of an improving labor market. For the quarter, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 6.4%. That’s nearly four times the average gain of just 1.8% for all calendar quarters since the late 1890s, when this benchmark was created — and better than the returns achieved in 70% of those individual quarter. Indeed, the Dow’s gain over the past three months is equivalent to an annual jump of more than 28%, according to MarketWatch’s Mark Hulbert On Friday, the Dow just missed topping its February closing high of 12,391.25 — after having failed to do so in its two previous attempts. Should the Dow surpass and remain above that previous high, then the venerable Dow Theory will flash an all-clear signal for the market, Hulbert says . Also, please remember to watch MarketWatch’s Week Ahead videos for Asia, Europe and the U.S.. Greg Morcroft, assistant managing editor Nonfarm payrolls grew by a seasonally adjusted 216,000 in March, their fastest pace since last May, the Labor Department said Friday, in an indication of an improving labor market. According to the survey of 400,000 business establishments, private-sector payrolls increased by 230,000 jobs after rising by 240,000 in February, marking the first time that private-sector job gains have been over 200,000 for two straight months in five years. The payrolls growth came in stronger than the 185,000 increase expected by economists surveyed by MarketWatch. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. on Friday made a joint $11.3 billion bid for NYSE Euronext Inc.  , trumping a previous offer from Germany’s Deutsche Boerse AG. Under the terms of the transaction proposed Friday, NYSE’s derivatives business would go to ICE  while Nasdaq   would take the remaining businesses, including stock trading and options in the U.S. and NYSE Euronext stock exchanges in New York, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon.The tie-up would create an exchange operator with $1.8 billion in combined revenue and generate $740 million in synergies, to be fully realized by the end of the third year following the closing of the transaction. Berkshire Hathaway Inc.    said late Wednesday that David Sokol resigned after it came to light that he bought millions of dollars in Lubrizol Corp.  shares shortly before urging Chairman Warren Buffett to buy the company.Sokol was considered a possible successor to Berkshire Chairman Warren Buffett. Sokol was chairman of several Berkshire Hathaway subsidiaries. Buffett said that he was surprised by Sokol’s decision and stressed in a statement that he and Sokol don’t consider the Lubrizol trades “unlawful.” Buffett said that Sokol told him that the trades were not a factor in his decision to resign. 
April this year is shaping up as the battleground for a fight between competing seasonal patterns. On one side, of course, stands the famous seasonal pattern known either as the Halloween Indicator or “Sell in May and Go Away.” Traders paying attention to this seasonal tendency will begin in April to pull some chips off the table. On the other side, in contrast, looms the equally famous Presidential Election Year Cycle. According to it, the stock market tends to perform particularly well during the third years of presidential terms. And, needless to say, we’re right in the middle of President Obama’s third year in office. Even if you define the Presidential Election Year Cycle in terms of fiscal years ending Sept. 30, as many devotees do, there’s positive seasonality for five of the six months that otherwise fall afoul of the “Sell in May and Go Away” indicator. Which of these seasonal patterns is stronger? To find out, I analyzed the Dow Jones Industrial Average   since 1932 to see if the Halloween Indicator in the past has worked any differently during third years of Presidential terms. I focused on the post-1932 period because followers of the Presidential Election Year Cycle theorize that it was only beginning with the Great Depression that the incumbent in the White House acquired sufficient power to significantly goose the economy in hopes of improving his party’s re-election chances. The accompanying table reports what I found. Note carefully that I defined the “winter” period of a president’s third year to begin on Halloween of his second year and lasting until April 30 of his third year; the six months immediately thereafter comprise the “summer” period of the third year. Using these conventions, we’re near the end of the winter period of President Obama’s third year, and about to enter the summer period. Notice that, on the one hand, the Halloween Indicator tends to hold up just as strongly during a president’s third year in office as in other years — if not more so. On the other hand, however, notice also that the stock market does tend to perform better in the summers of third years than in other years of the presidential term. Notice in particular that the average summer return since 1932 (4.3%) is actually slightly above the average six-month return across all years (4.0%). What this means: From a statistical point of view, these two seasonal patterns largely cancel each other out. Another way of putting this: Though the historical data suggest that the stock market in the imminent “summer” period is likely to experience lower returns than during the current “winter” period, its return should still be enough to make it worth traders’ while to not automatically “sell in May and go away.” To be sure, traders for other reasons may still want to begin taking more chips off the table. My point is simply that they should base that decision on those other reasons rather than on the imminent shift from winter to summer. 
The Federal Reserve began debating what comes after a $600 billion bond-buying program scheduled to end in June, according to the minutes of the March 15 meeting released Tuesday. The minutes show that for a “few” Fed members, economic conditions might unfold in a way that would warrant the launch of an exit plan this year. At the same time, a few others noted that the Fed’s ultra-low monetary policy may be appropriate “beyond 2011.” It was not clear whether this camp favored another round of asset purchases or simply wanted to hold on to the assets already purchased. The debate at the closed-door meeting has been reflected in the avalanche of Fed speakers in recent days. Some of the hawks on the Fed, including Minneapolis Fed president Narayana Kocherlakota said the Fed might have to raise interest rates before the end of the year to head off inflation. But New York Fed president William Dudley said the recovery is still tenuous and the current stance of Fed policy is appropriate. Fed watchers believe that Chairman Ben Bernanke commands a clear majority in favor of a go-slow approach. But the strong rhetoric from the hawkish minority has caught the market’s attention. J.P. Morgan Chase economist Michael Feroli said the majority at the Fed will not be ready to prepared to exit until 2013, and the markets were giving too much credence to “a couple of hawks.” “We are going to have the biggest fiscal tightening ever” in coming months and the Fed will not want to tighten at the same time, Feroli said. As expected, there was a lengthy discussion at the Fed meeting about the inflation outlook in the wake of the sharp increase in oil and food prices. In the end, several Fed officials said that their forecasts of inflation had “shifted somewhat to the upside.” Some were worried that the Fed’s enormous balance sheet might lead investors to doubt that the central bank could control inflation, which could cause inflation expectations to move higher. Bernanke has stressed in recent days the importance of keeping inflation expectations contained. In a speech Monday evening, Bernanke said that commodity prices are being driven primarily by global supply and demand and don’t threaten a major acceleration of inflation as long as inflation expectations remain stable. In light of these risks, the FOMC agreed to continue to plan for the eventual exit from the current policy stance. “In light of uncertainty about the economic outlook, it was seen as prudent to consider possible exit strategies for a range of potential economic outcomes,” the minutes said. At the March meeting, only a “few” FOMC officials said they would support ending the QE2 program early, while “several” said they wanted it to last until June 30 as originally planned. There was very little support for the idea of reducing the pace of the purchases as the end of the program nears. The dollar  fell more against the euro in light of the internal debate at the Fed as the European Central Bank is seen as having already decided to tighten. 
U.S. stocks closed out a bumpy, low-volume session Tuesday with losses for large-cap indexes, though the tech sector advanced on a rally in chip shares and an index rebalancing that should favor Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems, Inc. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   finished down 6.13 points, or 0.1%, to 12,393.90, with Boeing Co.  and General Electric Co.  each falling 1% to lead decliners. Losses were kept in check by Alcoa, Inc.   which gained 2.8%, and Intel Corp.  , up 1.1%. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index  ended fractionally lower, shedding 0.24 point to 1,332.63, with gains in materials stocks -- mainly a rally in metals stocks including gold miner Newmont Mining Corp.   -- helping offset weakness in telecommunications. Google , Inc.   shares were the worst off, losing 3.2%, after Bloomberg News reported that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission is considering opening a broad antitrust investigation into the company’s dominance of the Web search industry, citing two people familiar with the matter. The Nasdaq Composite , which includes more smaller-cap stocks than the Dow and S&P; 500, closed ahead by 2 points, or 0.07%, at 2,791.19. Investors’ Tuesday focus centered on Federal Open Market Committee meeting minutes that turned out to paint a familiar picture, as the Fed maintained its easy-money policies while offering reassuring words about the economy and signaling vigilance on inflation. “The minutes are telling you that Bernanke will have his way and see [quantitative easing] through its eventual end,” Anthony Chan, chief economist for J.P. Morgan Private Wealth Management said. Advancers edged past declines 17 to 13 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume of 831 million represented 82% of the 30-day average. Composite volume was 3.9 billion. The prior session marked the lowest volume session of the year. Among stocks in focus, Apple Inc.   shares fell 0.7% after Nasdaq OMX  , the New York exchange operator, said it would rebalance the Nasdaq 100  , effective at the start of trade on May 2. The rebalancing will reduce the technology company’s weighting in the index, currently at more than 20%, to 12%. Investors appeared to view the index rebalancing as a positive for technology stocks including Microsoft Corp.  , which gained 0.9%, and Cisco, up 0.9%. Chip stocks also lifted the Nasdaq Composite. National Semiconductor Corp.  shares surged 71% after Texas Instruments   said late Monday that it will buy the group for $6.5 billion in cash, or $25 a share, a 78% premium. Texas Instruments rose 1.7%. Also, Cisco shares gained pace after the company’s Chief Executive John Chambers told his employees that Cisco was “making a number of targeted moves” after disappointing investors and confusing its workers. The day’s economic data provided little support. The Institute of Supply Management’s report on activity in the services sector showed the non-manufacturing economy softened versus the previous month, highlighting the uneven state of the U.S. economic recovery. “The number wasn’t quite up to par,” said Sam Ginzburg, partner and director of capital markets at First New York Securities. He pointed to a dip in the ISM’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index, as well as a slowdown in the business activity and product index. 
John Chambers’s promise of “bold steps” and “tough decisions” at Cisco Systems Inc. is widely expected to mean that the tech giant will rein in its ambitious bid to conquer other markets. But while analysts praised the move, many agreed that mapping out a new course for Cisco  won’t be easy. That ambivalence was evident Friday on Wall Street. A few days after posting their biggest single-day percentage gain in nine months, Cisco’s shares fell 1.45% to close at $17.65, becoming biggest percentage decliner on the Dow Jones Industrial Average . Analysts said Cisco’s aggressive push into new frontiers actually made sense amid stiffer competition in its core networking market and the blurring of lines in the broader data-center arena. In fact, other major tech players, such as Oracle Corp   and Hewlett-Packard Co. , are also gunning for a broader piece of the corporate market and moving beyond their core businesses. The problem, the analysts noted, is that Cisco tried to fight too many battles at once and, in the process, became vulnerable on its home turf. “Over the last few years, Cisco was going down the path of letting a thousand flowers bloom, and those flowers will load the network and there will be a need for more networking gear,” IDC analyst Crawford Del Prete said in a phone interview. “The problem is they took their core networking business and their place in it a bit for granted.” From a maker of networking gear — known as the plumbing — that connect information-technology networks, Cisco has expanded to other areas, from videoconferencing and blade servers to consumer products, such as the Flip video camera and home networking. Cisco embarked on this bold push, while affirming an ambitious long-term annual sales growth rate of 12% to 17%. Eventually, analysts began to pick up on signs of strain at the tech behemoth, most evident when Cisco appeared to back off its financial targets. The company had set a revenue growth target for its current fiscal year at 9% to 12%. In its most recent earnings call, management narrowed that target, saying it sees growth at the middle to lower end of that range. Cisco also aimed for a lower gross-margin range. Analysts have raised concerns about trends in segments of the networking market, where Cisco is still dominant, as rivals led by Juniper Networks Inc.   and H-P seemed to be gaining ground. Citigroup analyst John Slack said Cisco is “still the gorilla” in networking, but its “core franchise [is] eroding.” According to IDC, Cisco’s share of total revenue in routers slipped to about 52% in the fourth quarter of 2010 from roughly 55% in the same period of 2009. Meanwhile, Juniper saw its share rise to about 18% from almost 17%. In switches, Cisco’s share of total revenue edged higher to 65.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010 from 65.2% in the same period of 2009, according to IDC. 
U.S. stocks fell Friday after crude-oil prices surged above $112 a barrel and as budget talks to avoid a government shutdown faced a midnight deadline. Budget negotiations on Capitol Hill weighed on Wall Street, with the political parties still at odds over spending just hours from what could be the first U.S. government closure in 15 years. “Nobody expects this to last a long time, but the divide between Republicans and Democrats is extremely large, especially if you include the Tea Party,” analyst Hugh Johnson said of the partisan battle. Caution on Friday was partially attributable to the coming earnings season. “Part of the story is everybody’s waiting in great anticipation of the earnings season, which effectively starts Monday and gets on a real roll a week from Monday,” said Johnson, chairman of Hugh Johnson Advisors. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   fell 29.44 points, or 0.24%, to 12,380.05. But the loss wasn’t enough to tip the index lower for the week. It pushed out a tiny gain of 0.03%. Off 0.3% for the week, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   closed 5.34 points, or 0.4%, lower at 1,328.17, with financials the greatest laggard and energy up the most among the benchmark’s 10 industry groups. The Nasdaq Composite Index   fell 15.72 points, or 0.56%, to 2,780.42, down 0.3% from last Friday’s finish. For every stock rising, more than two fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where more than 800 million shares traded by 4 p.m. Eastern. Corporate results should help investors gauge the overall earnings impact of events in the Middle East, North Africa and Japan. “We’ve already received hints that earnings will be impacted, energy companies will benefit and airlines will be penalized by the rise in oil prices,” Johnson said. On Friday, crude-oil futures for May delivery   rose $2.49 to finish at $112.79 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.Read more about crude oil. Higher fuel prices constitute an energy tax on consumers and corporations, with the price tag not insignificant, said Johnson, who calculates oil’s spike from $83 to $108 a barrel would cost an added $152.2 billion over a year’s time. Johnson came to the figure by multiplying the price rise by the 18.8 million in barrels consumed by the U.S. each day, times the number of days in the year to reach his estimate. Among stocks on the move, Expedia Inc.’s   shares rose 13% a day after the online travel company said it would split into two companies. On Friday, the Justice Department approved search giant Google Inc.’s   purchase of ticketing-software firm ITA Software as long as ITA’s products remained available to Google’s competitors. Expedia and Microsoft Corp.   were among the companies that objected to Google’s planned $700 million acquisition of ITA. 
 The week’s top story may not yet have been written, as the U.S. federal government is poised to shut down at midnight, barring a sudden outbreak of peace among warring parties. Both sides claimed to be negotiating hard — and even, depending on whom one listened to, to be making progress — as the deadline loomed. and . Still, even with that matter in the balance, through late afternoon Friday, the week had provided plenty of highlights and headlines, including continuations of gold’s and silver’s record runs, ever-higher oil and gasoline prices, Portugal’s concession that it would walk the bailout plank just as Greece and Ireland had done, and worrisome incidents in aviation and geology. and . With that and much more as a backdrop, the markets mustered a mixed week. Among the main U.S. stock indexes, the Dow industrials  were alone in eking out a gain, while the Nasdaq  and S&P;  dipped. Gold  zoomed to record levels, and crude futures  ended the week at a 30-month high. Treasury-bond yields, meanwhile, were up significantly. . Though the government may shut down Saturday — — MarketWatch is open for business all weekend, with a feature story on and coverage of developing stories and breaking news, in the District of Columbia and beyond. And, as you look toward the coming week and the in-earnest start of first-quarter earnings season, take a moment to watch our “Week Ahead” video reports: — , managing editor First-quarter earnings reports are set to roll in next week under a cloud, with investors anxious to measure the impact on corporate results of Japan’s worst disaster in decades. See full story on what to look for this earnings season. The federal government makes a convenient scapegoat for all sorts of social and economic maladies, writes Jim Jelter in a First Take commentary. But given the impact on the greenback, and the dollar’s effect on commodities trading, our nation’s capital has really earned it this time around. Industry  experts have coined the morphed month “Mapril” in order to make apples-to-apples retail-sales comparisons from year to year, given Easter’s back-and-forth hops between March and April. This year, in a pleasant surprise, that turned out to be unnecessary, reports Angela Moore. Political conflict has often been a key driver of the cocoa market, but recent price swings have illustrated the magnitude of the volatility traders must contend with. Of course, in the commodities markets, volatility spells opportunity. . Cisco’s  John Chambers, till very recently, was a lion of Silicon Valley, lauded for his even-keeled management of one of technology’s biggest and most indispensable companies. Cisco may remain indispensable, but shareholders are suddenly thinking that perhaps the CEO is not. . When Paul Jacobs took the helm at Qualcomm , succeeding his father, he faced a dual challenge: leading a company that was seen as a heavy bet on a singular wireless technology, while the company’s very business model was being challenged in the courts. He’s not only filled his dad’s commodious shoes but made great strides toward upgrading Qualcomm’s standing. 
Treasury prices declined after the closing bell Monday as traders positioned themselves ahead of a slew of bond auctions scheduled for this week. Earlier in the day, Treasury prices shifted between slight gains and losses, following the New York Fed’s purchase of notes and comments from the No. 2 Federal Reserve official about monetary policy and commodity prices. Fed Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen defended the central bank’s easy monetary-policy stance and said it isn’t to blame for recent spikes in commodity prices. Also, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York bought $7.86 billion in Treasury debt. Dealers had offered $27.1 billion in debt maturing from 2016 through 2018. Yields on the 2-year note , which lost ground last week after the European Central Bank quieted fears that it would move much more aggressively on interest rates than the Fed, rose nearly 2 basis points to 0.834%. Yields on the 5-year note  rose 1 basis points to 2.325%. As yields rise, prices fall. One basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point. John Spinello, Treasury bond strategist at Jefferies & Co., said he expects 10-year notes and 30-year bonds to sell off in front of auctions between now and Wednesday, with the money moving into corporate bonds. “Supply will be a bit of a burden this week, not a lot of positive order flow and not a lot of natural buyers of Treasurys right now,” Spinello said. The Treasury Department is scheduled to sell $32 billion in 3-year notes Tuesday, followed by $21 billion in 10-year notes on Wednesday and $13 billion in 10-year notes on Thursday. Yields on the 10-year note were virtually flat at 3.585%, and the yield on the 30-year bond rose nearly 1 basis point to 4.654%. With no U.S. economic data on the economic calendar, attention turned to other markets, including oil. On Friday, crude oil’s latest surge stoked fears of rising inflation, which could depress the value of investors’ existing bond holdings. In recent trading Monday, however, crude futures for May delivery  shed $2.87 to settle at $109.92 a barrel, for the first loss in four sessions. “In the near term, fixed income is dominated by inflation concerns that are overriding other sentiments,” wrote analysts at RBS Securities in emailed comments. “Liquidity flows out of bonds and into risk assets also are weighing on prices.” U.S. stocks gave up gains by early afternoon, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 1 point to close at 12,381, and the Nasdaq Composite Index  and S&P; 500 Index  closing at a loss. In addition to the Treasury auctions, traders were also getting ready for Friday’s report on U.S. consumer prices. “No economic data today, so the focus will be inflation data and the Treasury supply set-up slated for this week,” wrote Thomas di Galoma, head of U.S. fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Securities. 
Chinese and Hong Kong stocks declined to lead many Asian markets lower Thursday on caution that official data to be released Friday could show consumer prices accelerated in March, forcing Beijing to tighten its monetary policy further. The Singapore dollar hit a record high against the U.S. dollar, while stocks in Singapore fell after the country’s central bank raised the trading range of the currency to curb inflationary pressures. “There is still some nervousness out there,” said ANZ Bank senior economist Khoon Goh in Wellington. “The earnings reporting season does not look likely to spark a fresh rally in (U.S.) equities, and the run of upside surprises to U.S. economic data look to be nearing its end, though this has more to do with improved expectations as opposed to poor data,” Goh said. China’s Shanghai Composite Index  fell 0.3% to 3,042.64, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  gave up 0.5% to 24,014.00, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  shed 0.6% to 4,884.20 and New Zealand’s NZX 50 finished 0.1% lower at 3,454.48. In afternoon trade, Singapore’s Straits Times Index fell 0.5% to 3,155.72 and Indonesia’s main stock index dropped 0.7% to 3,708.77. Markets in India and Thailand were closed for a public holiday. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  erased early losses to finish 0.1% higher at 9,653.92 in choppy trade, led by some technology shares. Also advancing, South Korea’s Kospi rose 0.9% to 2,141.06 and Taiwan’s Taiex added 0.3% to 8,802.73. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were 14 points lower in screen trade. Dariusz Kowalczyk, strategist for Asia excluding Japan at Credit Agricole, said “investors fear a further monetary tightening push in China and are concerned that it could weigh on global demand for commodities in particular.” China is to release a slew of data Friday, including March consumer price index-based inflation, which many economists expect to rise around 5.2% from the year-earlier month, accelerating from the 4.9% reading in the previous two months. Fears that Beijing might introduce more restrictive policies to cool inflation persisted after China’s State Council said Wednesday it will take all required measures to maintain price stability, and that it won’t relax controls on the property sector. Property stocks were among the losers on mainland Chinese bourses, with China Vanke Co.    losing 1.5% in Shenzhen, while in Shanghai, Poly Real Estate Group Co.  and Gemdale Corp.  dropped 2.3% and 2.2%, respectively. In Hong Kong, China Resources Land Ltd.    slipped 0.3%. Earlier in the day, Moody’s Investors Service also cut its outlook on the Chinese property sector to negative from stable, citing a tough operating environment for developers due to policy tightening, rising interest rates, reduced bank lending and increased supply. Several Hong Kong-based property stocks also fell on concerns rising supply and likely tighter liquidity conditions might hurt developers. Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd.    gave up 0.6% and Hang Lung Properties Ltd.    fell 0.4%. 
Of the 17 countries rated triple-A by Standard & Poor’s, the United States now has the distinction of being the only one with a negative outlook after S&P; earlier Monday lowered its view on U.S. credit ratings. The news roiled stock markets, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  closing down 140.24 points, or 1.1%, at 12,201.59. S&P; cited large budget deficits and rising government debt in the United States, as well as uncertainties over how well these problems will be addressed. But as Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank, noted, the deficit/debt concerns behind S&P;’s decision shouldn’t come as a surprise “to any market professional with a pulse.” A negative outlook is quite different from being placed on negative review and doesn’t always lead to an automatic rating downgrade. The U.S. dollar bounced back after losing some ground against the euro. However, it remained soft against the Japanese yen. Meanwhile, David Ader, a strategist at CRT Capital Markets, pointed out that the gross domestic product of the United States roughly equals the sum of all the other countries on the list. “So while the downgrade threat is what it is, buyers shying away from US debt have little other choice,” Ader said in his commentary. Aside from the 17 countries, S&P; also rates Isle of Man and Guernsey, two British crown dependencies, at triple A with stable outlooks. S&P; sovereign ratings (LT/Outlook/ST) and GDP for 2009, from the World Bank 
Texas Instruments Inc.’s shares slumped Monday evening as the company’s quarterly earnings came in below Wall Street’s consensus estimate, while Zions Bancorp.’s shares rose after the company swung to a profit. TI’s shares  dropped 1.8% to $34.15 in heavy volume and were among the top 10 traded issues after hours, according to Nasdaq data. For its first quarter, profit at TI came in at $666 million, or 55 cents a share, compared with $658 million or 52 cents a share for the year-earlier period. TI said earnings in the most recent period were hurt by about 2 cents a share because of the recent and massive Japanese earthquake. Revenue rose to $3.4 billion from $3.2 billion. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected earnings of 58 cents a share on revenue $3.4 billion. The company projected second-quarter revenue of $3.41 billion to $3.69 billion and per-share earnings of 52 cents to 60 cents a share. Analysts currently expect second-quarter revenue of $3.53 billion and per-share earnings of 63 cents. Zions Bancorp’s  shares, meanwhile, picked up 4.1% to $23.91 in light volume. The banking firm, which runs in 10 Western states, swung to a first-quarter profit of $14.8 million, or 8 cents a share. A year ago, it lost $86.5 million or 57 cents a share. Analysts had forecast a loss of 18 cents a share. Crane Co.’s  shares rose in scant volume, up 7.6% at $50.65, gaining when the diversified industrial-products supplier lifted its yearly earnings outlook following a increase in first-quarter profit. It now expects 2011 earnings of $3.05 to $3.25 a share, up from a previous range of $2.80 to $3 a share. For the year, Wall Street foresees $2.96 a share. First-quarter profit at Crane climbed to $48.5 million, or 81 cents a share, from $33.2 million or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose to $611 million from $530.3 million in the year-ago period. Wall Street was looking for earnings of 65 cents a share on revenue of $576.7 million for the first quarter. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks dropped sharply after Standard & Poor’s cut the outlook on its triple-A credit rating for the United States. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished off session lows, but closed down 140 points, or 1.1%, to 12,201.59 — the index’s worst one-day drop since March 16. The S&P; 500 Index  fell 1.1%, as did the Nasdaq Composite Index . 
Novartis AG and Johnson & Johnson boosted pharmaceutical stocks Tuesday afternoon, as shares of the Big Pharma titans gained after both companies issued better-than-expected first-quarter sales reports. The NYSE Arca Pharmaceutical Index  rose 0.5% to 316. Novartis   and J&J;   are two of the index’s top three components. J&J; is also a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Meanwhile, the NYSE Arca Biotechnology Index   slipped 1% to 1,392 Shares of Novartis jumped 3% to $55.98 after the Swiss drug maker reported a 4% decline in net income, due in part to costs associated with its recent takeover of Alcon and a strong Swiss franc. Sales, however, climbed 16%, helped by the launch of new products. Likewise, J&J; shares rose 3% to $61.96. The world’s largest health-care company also reported a lower first-quarter profit due to various accounting items, but sales handily topped analyst estimates. J&J; also raised its 2011 adjusted earnings forecast to a range of $4.90 to $5 a share, from its previous guidance of $4.80 to $4.90 a share. On average, analysts had been looking for adjusted earnings of $4.84 a share, according to FactSet Research. 
General Electric Co. posted a blow-out quarter on Thursday, raised its dividend and painted a rosy picture of the future, but the conglomerate’s industrial growth lagged its peers and profit margins were under pressure, leading to a retreat in its share price. General Electric  shares, part of the Dow Jones Industrial Average , fell 2.2% to close at $19.95, while the 30-stock Dow benchmark added 0.4% to 12,506 points. “The headline numbers were strong, but digging deeper there were a couple concerns,” said Edward Jones analyst Matt Collins of Fairfield, Conn.-based GE. “United Technologies  and Honeywell  grew revenues twice as fast during quarter, so the bar was set pretty high,” he told MarketWatch. GE Capital, the company’s financial arm, drove earnings growth in the March quarter, with industrial profit up just 1%. But the quality of earnings were a lingering concern due to one-time gains that some investors didn’t expect, Collins said. “The good news is that orders grew at a double-digit pace, which bodes well for the rest of the year. Of course, this isn’t unique to GE; we’re seeing that across the industrial space,” he said. GE’s shares hit a 52-week high of $21.65 on Feb. 14, but an earthquake in Japan sent the stock spinning in March as low as $19.45. In July, the stock bottomed out for the year at $13.75. For the first quarter, the company reported profit rose to $3.43 billion, or 31 cents a share, from $1.95 billion, or 17 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Operating earnings, which excludes some pension costs, totaled $3.6 billion, or 33 cents a share. That surpassed analysts’ average forecast for earnings of 28 cents a share, according to a survey by FactSet Research. Quarterly revenue increased 6% to almost $38.45 billion, well ahead of the Wall Street consensus of $34.76 billion. GE also said its board of directors voted to raise the company’s quarterly dividend for the third time since July, bumping up the payout by 1 cent to 15 cents a share, effective in the third quarter. On the industrial side, segment profit rose less than 1% to $2.98 billion from $2.96 billion. GE Capital profit more than tripled to $1.84 billion. First-quarter industrial growth paled when compared to United Technologies and Honeywell International, both of which reported financial results on Wednesday. UTC said its profit rose 17%, while Honeywell’s increased 44%. GE said its industrial segment’s operating profit margin declined 1.1 percentage point from a year ago, to 14.3%. Deflation remained positive for the quarter, GE said, but margins were also affected by lower wind-turbine pricing, the non-repeat of a 2010 aviation franchise fee and new acquisitions. 
U.S. stocks ended higher for the third straight session on Thursday, pushing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to a multiyear high, as investors took confidence from a slew of stronger earnings and outlooks. “Earnings do tend to drive the market, and that’s what we’re seeing,” said Rose Greene, owner of Rose Greene Financial, an independent representative of LPL Financial. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   ended up 52.45 points, or 0.4%, to 12,505.99. It was the highest close for the Dow since June 5, 2008. Travelers Cos.   shares led gains for 19 of 30 Dow components, rising 3.7% after the insurer reported a jump in profit, citing more demand from business customers, and raised its dividend. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   gained 7.02 points, or 0.5%, to 1,337.38, with materials — particularly chemical stocks — and tech shares leading gains booked by all 10 industry groups. The Nasdaq Composite Index   rose 17.65 points, or 0.6%, to 2,820.16. For every stock gaining, about one fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 813 billion. The day’s rise cemented weekly gains for a trading span shortened by the Good Friday holiday. For the week, the Dow and S&P; 500 ended up 1.3%, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 2%. The major indexes had lost the bulk of their early gains after a midmorning round of economic reports, including a gauge of manufacturing in the Philadelphia region that slipped in April to a five-month low. They then recovered to end near highs of the day. “Of the economic reports that came out today, the Philly Fed was the eye-opener; that number was just awful,” said Burt White, chief investment officer at LPL Financial. But White added that Wall Street’s still-intact three-day winning streak can be chalked up to first-quarter earnings, with upbeat surprises returning to the 5% level not seen at the start of the season. “We didn’t get that at the beginning,” said White, noting initial disappointments from Bank of America Corp.  and Alcoa Inc. . “But in the last three days, we’re crushing it, with big earnings surprises to the upside,” said White, pointing to Apple Inc.   and Qualcomm Inc.   as examples. The week ahead will be key in determining whether there’s reason for the market to continue to trend higher, and how much rising commodities costs have pressured margins, with companies including Whirlpool Corp. , Coca-Cola Co.  and Kimberly-Clark Corp.   among those scheduled to report. Rising commodity costs mean little to some of the companies that have already reported, such as Intel Corp.  , Bank of America Corp.   or Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , White said. But if Coca-Cola is saying, ‘sugar’s too high and it’s hurting our margins,’ then we could be in for a decent-sized pullback,” said White. Although the Philly Fed index was the biggest surprise in the economic data, LPL Financial’s White said he was most distressed by jobless claims, saying the last really good claims data, relative to expectations, came on March 3. “Since then, we’ve had seven weeks of in line or worse,” said White. The Labor Department reported Thursday that initial claims for jobless benefits remained above 400,000 for a second week, news that dented gains in stock-index futures. On Wednesday, the Dow industrials notched their best session since March 3, as investors embraced upbeat earnings from Intel Corp.   and others. Commodities have risen along with equities this week, with crude trading near its cyclical peak of $112 a barrel, Fred Dickson, chief market strategist at Davidson Cos, wrote in an emailed note. On Thursday, the crude-oil contract for June delivery   ended at $112.29 a barrel. “Rising short-term interest rates in other parts of the world outside of the U.S. appear to be a major catalyst for money moving into these financial instruments and away from the dollar and longer-term Treasury securities,” the analyst added. 
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and SanDisk Corp. posted quarterly results above Wall Street’s expectations, but their shares struggled in Thursday evening’s trading session. Shares of SanDisk   fell 1% to $48.50, but were off session lows. The company posted an 11% gain in operating income for its fiscal second quarter on growing demand for its flash memory products in mobile devices. Adjusted income was $1.03 a share and revenue rose 19% to $1.29 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings of 99 cents a share on revenue of $1.26 billion, according to a poll of analysts conducted by FactSet Research. SanDisk also expects fiscal third-quarter revenue in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.35 billion for June quarter, in line with expectations. AMD shares  were off 0.3% at $8.68. The chip maker said first-quarter adjusted income was 8 cents a share. Revenue was $1.61 billion, up from $1.57 billion. Analysts had expected earnings of 5 cents a share on revenue of $1.61 billion, according to a consensus survey by Thomson Reuters. Net earnings were $510 million, or 68 cents a share, up from $257 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. For the second quarter, AMD expects revenue to be “flat to slightly down,” from the first quarter. But shares of International Game Technology  bounced 9% higher to $17.80 in active trade. The slot machine maker said fiscal second-quarter earnings from continuing operations rose to $69.6 million, or 23 cents a share, higher than $25.7 million, or 8 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose to $492.3 million from $486.8 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet Research expected earnings of 20 cents a share on revenue of $482.4 million. International Game Tech also forecast adjusted earnings for the year of 84 cents to 90 cents a share, compared with an analyst consensus of 87 cents a share. U.S. stocks rose ahead of Thursday’s late-trading session as investors embraced largely positive corporate financial reports. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   rose for a third straight session, up 52 points at 12,505.99. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.5% at 1,337.38, and the Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 0.6% to 2,820.16. The benchmarks also finished higher for the holiday-shortened week. 
Chinese stocks fell Monday on concern Beijing may continue to tighten its monetary policy, while Japanese shares gave up early gains to end lower as investors fretted about corporate outlooks in the wake of the March 11 disasters. China’s Shanghai Composite gave up 1.5% to end at 2,964.95, Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  edged down 0.1% to 9,671.96 and Taiwan’s Taiex shed 0.2% to 8,950.75, while South Korea’s Kospi gained 0.8% to 2,216.00. Transaction volumes remained light in some markets as many traders were away for the Easter holiday. Markets in Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand were closed. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were up 27 points in screen trade. The fall in Shanghai came as Nymex crude-oil prices remained above $110 a barrel, posing a challenge to policy makers’ efforts to cool inflation on the mainland. Sanjay Mathur, Asia economist at Royal bank of Scotland in Singapore, wrote to clients that the fall came as “investors focused on the likelihood of further policy tightening as oil prices continue to rise.” Shares across most sectors declined, with property developers, metal producers and automobile stocks among those hit. Poly Real Estate Group Co.  fell 2%, Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.    sank 3.2% and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.  slid 3.1%. June Nymex crude-oil futures were at $112.85 per barrel on Globex recently, up 56 cents from the close Thursday in New York, where markets were closed for a holiday Friday. The Japanese stock market failed to maintain its early momentum despite some positive earnings-related news. Komatsu Ltd.    rose 0.4% on a Nikkei report it was expected to post a 30% rise in group operating profit for the current fiscal year ending March 2012. “The strength in global demand has not changed” despite the March 11 earthquake, said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management. However, the stock’s muted gains suggest investors see it as a “default buy” since other manufacturers have been hit by supply disruptions, he added. Shares of Fanuc Ltd.    fell 1.3%, extending Friday’s losses after Barclays Capital cut its rating on the stock to “equal-weight” from “overweight,” citing likely earthquake-related supply disruptions. Yahoo Japan Corp.    gained 3.4% after the company provided a bullish forecast for the fiscal first quarter ending in June. Tokyo Electric Power Co.    , the owner of the stricken Daiichi Fukushima nuclear power plant, surged 8.4% after local media reported the government is arranging to help the company pay for damages incurred from the nuclear accident. In Seoul, auto shares helped to boost the market on expectations of strong first-quarter earnings. Hyundai Motor Co.  jumped 5.6% and Kia Motors Corp.  climbed 3.2%. Auto parts maker Hyundai Wia Corp. spiked 14.7%. 
Brazil’s benchmark index closed modestly lower Monday as trading resumed after a four-day holiday, with inflation concerns weighing on the outlook for the country’s economic growth. Brazil’s Bovespa  shed 0.1% with oil giant Petrobras  down 0.4% as oil prices weakened, but miner Vale  added 0.6%. Brazil’s stock market was closed on Thursday and Friday. “Prospects for inflation and for inflation expectations do not look bright,” Marcelo Carvalho, an analyst at BNP Paribas, said in a note to clients Monday. “After all, the economy has been operating beyond capacity, labor markets are tight ... and observers appear to question the authorities’ inflation-fighting commitment.” On Wednesday, Brazil’s central bank raised the country’s benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point to 12%, marking the third rate hike this year. The BNP Paribas analysts expect inflation to breach the 6.5% ceiling this year — “surely during the year and probably for the full calendar year as well,” Carvalho said. In a research note last week, ICICI Bank analysts said Brazil’s economy has “witnessed a moderate slowdown in its growth trajectory, with the decline in consumption and investment growth,” though “exports remain strong.” Elsewhere in Latin American markets, Argentina’s Merval  ended 0.4% lower while Mexico’s IPC  added 0.1%. Both stock exchanges were closed Thursday and Friday. Chile’s IPSA equity index  closed up 0.3%. Trading Chile’s stock market ended early Thursday ahead of the Good Friday holiday. On Wall Street Monday, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and the Dow Jones Industrial Average  each lost about 0.2%. 
U.S. stock investors rushed into stocks Wednesday, sending the Nasdaq Composite Index to its highest since 2000, after the Federal Reserve reiterated its vow to stimulate economic growth with low interest rates. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 95.59 points, or 0.8%, at 12,690.96, with percent gainers led by a 2.7% rally in General Electric Co. shares. All but two of its 30 components gained, lifting the blue-chip index to its highest close since May 20, 2008. The S&P; 500 Index advanced 8.42 points, or 0.6%, to 1,355.66. Among the benchmark’s 10 industry groups, telecommunications led sector gains. Only energy stocks fell. The Nasdaq Composite  rose 22.34 points, or 0.8%, to 2,869.88, breaking through a 2007 closing high to its highest since December 12, 2000. After ending at multiyear highs Tuesday, the U.S. benchmark indexes had wavered near the flat line through the first half of Wednesday’s session, then headed more definitively into positive territory after the FOMC statement. Stock gains strengthened after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke held the Fed’s first post-statement press conference, and intensified into the final hour. The Fed said it would keep its target rates unchanged at 0% to 0.25%, end its $600 billion bond-purchase program on schedule on June 30, and said a pick-up in inflation would likely be short-lived. Bernanke downplayed the possibility of a third round of quantitative easing, saying the trade-offs had become less attractive. But he also said he didn’t know when the Fed would start to tighten interest rates. “Ending QE2 is just a reduction in further easing rather than any form of new tightening, and he made that clear,” according to Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. Gold surged after Bernanke’s statement and remarks. With analysts taking Bernanke’s statements as reassurance the Fed would keep rates low for the foreseeable future, raising inflation pressures, gold for June delivery added $10.40 an ounce to $1,527.50 in electronic trading. It had settled $13.60 higher at $1,517.10 an ounce. The dollar sank to an August 2008 low against the euro after the Bernanke remarks. “Bernanke essentially gave a ‘green light’ to continue selling the [U.S. dollar], as mounting risk appetite continues to utilize ultra-accommodative U.S. monetary policy to speculate in higher-yielding assets overseas,” wrote Michael Woolfolk, currency strategist at BNY Mellon Global Markets. The Fed statement also removed one element of uncertainty over a market that had been increasingly inspired by corporate earnings. “The Fed wants to present itself as having a plan, being consistent and not adding to the uncertainty in the market,” said Marc Pado, U.S. market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. “You may not like the track it’s on, but you can be confident of where it’s going, and that consistency translates into a positive for the market,” he said. For every two stocks gaining, about one fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where more than 962.5 million shares traded hands. “Everybody is looking for that new correction because we’ve run so far, but we don’t start major corrections from a confirmed new high, so I think it’s premature to jump on this as an opportunity to sell,” added Cantor Fitzgerald’s Pado. With the first-quarter earnings season about halfway through, about 80% of those reporting so far have beaten expectations, he noted. 
U.S. stock-market futures fell further Thursday after data showing the economy weakened in the first quarter and jobless claims topping 400,000 for another week. The Commerce Department said gross domestic product rose at a 1.8% annual rate between January and March, slower than the 3.1%-pace in the prior quarter. Separately, the Labor Department said those filing initial claims for jobless benefits rose 25,000 to 429,000 last week. Stock futures were already lower amid a crush of earnings results as investors paused for breath after the prior two-day rally. Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average   fell 20 points to 12,621, while futures for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index   slipped 2.4 points to 1,348.6. Futures for the Nasdaq 100   shed 4.75 points to 2,404.25. On Wednesday, the Dow  rose 0.8% to close at 12,690.96, its highest since May 20, 2008. The Nasdaq Composite knocked out a 2007 closing high to finish at its best level since Dec. 12, 2000. Speaking at the Federal Reserve’s first post-statement press conference Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank will maintain its easy monetary policy and isn’t mulling any quick policy moves to fight higher inflation or slower growth. “I think to some extent Bernanke is walking a tightrope, and this time he managed to stay on the rope,” but he could face problems down the road, said Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank. For now, Jakobsen said he doesn’t see anything stopping the S&P; 500  from moving to 1,385, then 1,400, except the start of a true dollar crisis. “If it moves from orderly to disorderly, we could have an equity impact” and a problem for the Fed, he said. The dollar continued to lose ground in Asian and European trading hours, with the dollar index  lately off to 73.16. The dollar index measures the greenback against a basket of six major currencies. Gold prices continued to gain on back of dollar weakness, with June futures  up $14.50 to $1,531.60 an ounce on Nymex. The corporate schedule was full, with a flood of earnings results and a deal announced ahead of the open. Exelon Corp.  will acquire Constellation Energy Group Inc.  in a stock deal valued at about $7.9 billion, the companies said in a statement. Shares of Akamai Technologies Inc.  sank in preopen trading. The company said late Wednesday that first-quarter profit rose almost 24%, but its second-quarter outlook fell short of Wall Street estimates. Shares of Sprint Nextel Corp.  rose in premarket trading after the wireless company reported a first-quarter loss of 15 cents a share. Shares of Aetna Inc.  gained before the bell, after announcing a 4% increase in first-quarter profit and said it will buy Prodigy Health Group, a third-party administrator of self-funded health plans, for $600 million. Shares of Dow Chemical Co.  added in the premarket after the company reported a higher first-quarter profit. U.S.-listed shares of Deutsche Bank AG    climbed in premarket trade after the company said its first-quarter profit rose 17%, helped by a string of acquisitions. But U.S.-listed shares of SAP AG    tumbled in preopen trading after the German software group posted a 4% increase in net profit, but missed analysts’ forecasts. After the close of markets, Microsoft Corp. is due to report its quarterly results. In overseas markets, European stocks traded higher, supported by well-received corporate updates from Deutsche Bank, Banco Santander    and Bayer AG . Stocks jumped in Tokyo, but Shanghai and Hong Kong markets fell. 
U.S. stocks closed solidly higher Thursday, pushing the Dow average to its best finish in nearly three years after confidence in corporate results overcame weaker economic data. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 72.35, or 0.6%, to 12,763.31 points, its highest close since May 20, 2008. Twenty-three of the blue-chip components gained, led by Boeing Co. , DuPont  and American Express Co. . “Overall it’s been a good period, earnings have come in better than expected and the market is just sort of dealing with that right now. We’re very overbought but may have more room to run,” said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners LLC. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 4.82 points to 1,360.48, with financials the best performer and energy the biggest laggard among its 10 industry groups. The S&P; 500 closed Wednesday at 1,355.66, twice its bear-market low of 676.53 hit on March 9, 2009, or “doubling the index value in 26 months,” noted Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P; Indices. The gain of more than 100%, however, “needs to be interpreted with the fact that the index remains 13.38% off its Oct. 9, 2007, high,” Silverblatt added. Echoing a theme from past sessions, rosier outlooks from companies overshadowed dimmer views from the day’s economic data. Shares of Citrix Systems Inc.  rose 10% a day after the maker of infrastructure software raised its 2011 outlook. Motorola Solutions   shares advanced 7.5% after the communications-equipment provider reported results. Norfolk Southern Corp.   shares gained 8% after the railway operator reported a first-quarter profit that beat expectations, thanks to better freight demand. Those gains helped lift the Dow Jones Transportation Average   1.2% to 5,510, a record high. The Nasdaq Composite Index   rose 2.65 points, or 0.1%, to 2,872.53, its best since Dec. 12, 2000. For every 11 stocks falling, roughly 19 gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 961.8 million shares traded. Earlier in the day, the Commerce Department reported the U.S. economy grew at a 1.8% annual rate in the first quarter, softer than the 3.1% pace for the prior three months. Separately, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing for initial jobless claims last week rose 25,000 to 429,000, the highest total since late January. “These data points should not materially affect investor earnings expectations in coming quarters but point to the fact that the economy is growing at a lot slower rate than normally seen during the end of the second year of an economic expansion,” said Fred Dickson, chief investment strategist at Davidson Cos. The dollar index   fell, while gold futures   rose to end at $1,531.2 an ounce and crude oil   slipped back below $113 a barrel in New York. The recent spike in commodities could prove temporary, given that the Federal Reserve plans to halt its $600 billion bond-buying program, also known as quantitative easing. The Federal Open Market Committee, which finished its two-day policy meeting Wednesday, agreed that the Treasury purchases would end as planned in June, saying the rise in commodity prices would likely have a transitory effect on inflation. Pavlik at Banyan Partners concurred the rise in prices would probably be temporary, as the Fed’s program weakened the U.S. dollar, making alternative assets more appealing, and therefore the reverse would likely to come into play once the Fed’s program ends. “The market is thinking oil prices may start to move lower as the dollar strengthens as QE2 nears its end. That is why you started to see comments by big investment firms calling for a pullback in oil prices,” said Pavlik. 
The first quarter ended on an up note with U.S. consumer spending looking better than expected, given higher gasoline costs, the Commerce Department reported Friday. March data showed consumer spending rose 0.6% in current dollar terms, roughly in line with expectations on Wall Street. “At least through March, households continued to spend, but rising prices [are] eating up a lot of that money,” said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. The report on personal incomes as well as consumer spending fleshes out monthly details contained in the government’s data on growth in gross domestic product for the three months through March, released Thursday. In its initial forecast, the Commerce Department said economic growth slowed to a 1.8% annual pace in the first quarter from a 3.1% pace in the final three months of 2010. A sharp drop in government spending was the main culprit for the first-quarter GDP slowdown, but consumer spending — which accounts for about 70% of the economy — also decelerated. Consumer spending slowed to a 2.7% pace in the first quarter from a 4% pace in the fourth quarter. But economists had been expecting a steeper fall-off, to a 2% increase. Besides the March data, the Commerce Department revised higher consumer spending for January and February. As revised, spending rose by 0.9% in February, compared with the prior estimate of a 0.7% increase, and by 0.5% in January, compared with 0.3% previously estimated. Personal income rose 0.5% in March, above expectations of a 0.3% gain. U.S. financial markets took the data in stride, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  making early gains and with the price of benchmark 10-year Treasury notes  trading in a narrow range. The personal consumption expenditure index, which Federal Reserve officials say is a more accurate gauge of inflation than the better-known consumer price index, rose 0.4% on the month. The core rate of inflation — which excludes food and energy prices — rose 0.1%, as expected. In the past year, the PCE price index has risen 1.8%, while the core PCE index was up 0.9%. Fed officials have adopted an informal target for inflation of 1.7% to 2%. After adjusting for inflation of 0.4%, after-tax incomes rose 0.1% in March and real spending increased 0.2%. This inflation-adjusted rate of spending was clear evidence of what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has described as a “double whammy” from higher gasoline prices: On the one hand, higher prices at the pump add to inflation; on the other, they drain purchasing power from households But at his first-ever press conference following a meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, Bernanke said the U.S. central bank doesn’t expect the higher inflation seen in recent data to last for a long time. Wages and salaries rose 0.3% in March after a 0.4% increase in February. With spending running stronger in the first quarter than income, the nation’s personal savings rate fell to 5.5% in March, matching February’s rate but down from 5.9% in January. Real spending on durable goods rose 0.1%, in March, while real spending on nondurable goods decreased 0.3%, and real spending on services rose 0.4% — marking the biggest increase since December 2009 and coming as a pleasant surprise to analysts. “That seems to show that people are now comfortable purchasing the smaller things that make their lives better, a sign of growing confidence,” said Naroff. In a separate report, the Labor Department reported that employment costs rose 0.6% in the first quarter after a 0.4% gain in the fourth quarter. Wage gains were up only 0.4%. “The key point is that the trend in wage gains is both very low and stable, consistent with very small increases in core inflation in the cost-push model favored by the Fed,” said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics. 
U.S. stocks and commodities slid sharply Wednesday as disappointing data on the services sector and jobs overshadowed enthusiasm on corporate deal-making. “I don’t think it’s the start of a bear market, but the chances of a near-term correction have risen,” said Nick Raich, director of research at Key Private Bank. “Earnings season started out very strong, only one in 10 were missing estimates, now it’s nearly one in four. In the last five days, 22% to 23% have missed, and a lot of them blame rising commodity prices,” Raich added. After a 134-point drop, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  moderated its decline to end off 83.93 points, or 0.7%, at 12,723.58, with 22 of its 30 components losing ground. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  shed 9.30 points, or 0.7%, to 1,347.32, with materials the worst-performing of its 10 industry groups. It was the third straight day of losses. Gold futures  lost $25.10, or 1.6%, to end at $1,515.30 an ounce following a Wall Street Journal report that Soros Fund Management LLC has trimmed its gold and silver holdings. Silver futures  tumbled $3.20, or 7.5%, to $39.39 an ounce. and . Benchmark crude for June delivery   declined $1.81 to end at $109.24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Read about oil prices. and The Nasdaq Composite Index   lost 13.39 points, or 0.5%, to 2,828.23. The Institute for Supply Management said its services index declined to 52.8 last month from 57.3 in March, missing analysts’ expectations. “Generally speaking, data such as this corroborate our more cautious stance entering the year and should further push to the sidelines those expecting 4% growth or more this year,” said Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. The ISM report was the day’s second disappointment for economic data. The first was a 179,000 increase in private-sector payrolls estimated by Automated Data Processing Inc. . Economists were expecting a gain closer to 200,000. Decliners outpaced gainers more than 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.1 billion shares traded. Several individual stocks rallied on deal news. ConAgra Foods Inc.   offered to buy food maker Ralcorp Holdings Inc.  for about $4.9 billion, a sweetened offer Ralcorp still rejected. Ralcorp shares gained 4.9%. Applied Materials Inc.  said it planned to buy Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc.   for $4.9 billion. Varian shares surged 51%. Another maker of chip gear, Novellus Systems  , rallied 6.5%. “The market has a couple of mergers, which would typically bode well, but today is contradictory,” said Stephen Carl, head equity trader at the Williams Group. 
Shares of JDSU leaped and Whole Foods Market Inc. stock rose after the upscale grocer lifted its yearly outlook, while Electronic Arts Inc. shares sloughed off declines that had arrived after the videogame publisher issued a conservative outlook. JDSU  shares surged 9.9% to $21.95 in heavy volume when the optical-networking company said fiscal third-quarter adjusted income was 22 cents a share, and revenue rose to $454 million from $332.3 million from the year-ago period. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected earnings of 20 cents a share on revenue of $448 million. JDSU swung to a net profit of $38.6 million, or 16 cents a share. A year ago, it lost $11.9 million or 5 cents a share. Whole Foods  picked up 4.5% to $62.41, with the company raising its fiscal 2011 forecast for sales growth and earnings. It also said its considering raising its dividend and repurchasing stock. Whole Foods now expects sales growth of 11.7% to 12.6% and per-share earnings of $1.87 to $1.90. Fiscal second-quarter profit at Whole Foods rose 33% to $89.9 million, or 51 cents a share, from the same period a year ago. Sales rose 12% to $2.4 billion, and identical store sales, or sales at stores open one year, rose 7.8%. Electronic Arts  shares were 2.2% higher to $20.35. The shares had declined earlier in the session when the company said it expects fiscal first-quarter adjusted revenue of $460 million to $500 million. That forecast is below the $518 million expected by analysts. Also, EA expects revenue for the full fiscal year to come in between $3.75 billion and $3.95 billion, on the low side of Wall Street’s consensus estimate of $3.94 billion EA, whose titles include “Crysis 2,” posted a sharp rise in fiscal fourth-quarter profit on strong sales of its core titles, as well as on its growing digital business. U.S. stocks fell ahead of the evening session following lackluster economic data, with one report showing slower expansion in the service sector and another showing a lower-than-expected amount of jobs created in the private sector in April. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed 84 points lower at 12,723.58, but ended off session lows. The Nasdaq Composite Index   lost 0.5% to end at 2,828.23 and the S&P; 500 Index  fell 0.7% to 1,347,32. 
Brazilian stocks climbed Friday, with a report that monthly consumer prices rose by less than expected helping the market break a string of losses. Stocks in Chile and Argentina also rose Friday, drawing strength in part from a robust report about job creation in the United States, a key market for exporters throughout Latin America. Chile’s IPSA  rose 0.5% at 4,813.64 and Argentina’s Merval  picked up 0.3% to 3,315.84, its first gain in five sessions. But Mexico’s IPC  turned lower, shedding 0.3% to end at 35,212.23. For the week, all of the major regional equity markets ended in the red, led by 4.7% decline in the IPC. On Wall Street, investors embraced the U.S. Labor Department’s report that the economy added 244,000 jobs in April as the private sector hired the most workers in five years. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch had expected a net gain of 175,000. The unemployment rate, however, rose to 9% from 8.8%. The S&P; 500 Index   rose 0.4% as did the Dow Jones Industrial Average , but backed off stronger levels of the session. Brazil’s Bovespa  rose 1.6% to 64,417.34 in broad-based gains led by retailers and communication stocks as well as from shares in interest-rate sensitive home builders and finance companies following the government’s inflation report for April. The IBGE statistics agency said consumer prices in April rose 0.77%, compared with a 0.79% rise in March. The April figure was less than the market estimate of 0.83%, according to Dow Jones Newswires. On a 12-month basis, inflation rose to 6.51%, putting it above the 6.5% upper-limit of the central bank’s inflation target. While the rate now stands above the target, inflation has likely peaked, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega reportedly said Friday. The pullback in consumer prices may contribute to a decision by the central bank to hold off in the short term an interest-rate hike. The Selic rate now stands at 12%, one of the highest rates in the world. In trading activity in Sao Paulo, shares of banking firm Banco Santander Brasil  rose 3.1% and Itau Unibanco   gained 2.4%. Home builder PDG Realty  climbed 5.6% and MRV Engenharia  picked up 5.4%. Preferred shares of Tim Participacoes  were among the best price performers Friday, rallying 7.8% after the mobile services company said the preferreds will be converted to shares with voting rights. The change comes as the company prepares list on the Novo Mercado, which requires that traded shares carry voting rights. Tim’s voting shares   rose 7.2%. “We view this move as positive for all Tim shares, as improvements in corporate governance should more than offset dilution of [preferred] shares,” said analyst Luis Azevedo at Bradesco Equity Research in a clients’ note Friday. He added that Tim’s move reduces its price target on the preferred shares to 8 reals from 8.50 reals, and that the American Depositary Receipts  should also be converted to stock with the same rights. But preferred shares of Vale  lost grip of earlier gains, ending down 0.3%. The world’s largest miner of iron ore on Thursday posted a more than fourfold jump in first-quarter profit to $6.83 billion from the year-earlier period, saying expanded production and higher iron ore prices contributed to its best quarterly profit ever. The result surpassed expectations of analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires who, on average, expected net earnings of $5.43 billion. Net revenue surged to $13.2 billion from $6.6 billion a year ago. Vale said the average iron ore sales price climbed to $126.19 per metric ton, compared with $64.76 per metric ton a year ago. Also turning lower were shares of oil firm Petrobras  , down 1.1%. 
U.S. stocks are expected to be largely driven by economic data next week as initial jobless claims emerge as an important barometer of U.S. economic health while corporate results take a back seat. “Unemployment insurance is more important than usual,” said Myles Zyblock, chief equity strategist at RBC Capital Markets. “There are concerns that the economy is losing upside momentum and this will be a timely indicator to watch. The U.S. Labor Department releases weekly claims for unemployment benefits on Thursday. “This will be a key focus for equity investors given the big disappointment this week and the fact that the four-week moving average for claims has been drifting up over the past two months,” said Zyblock. The market will also look to retail sales and inflation data for a better read on the economy, with investors viewing sales to determine the impact of oil prices on spending. Higher energy and other raw costs have been a dominant theme during first-quarter earnings reporting season, which shifts into lower gear in the week ahead. Walt Disney Co.  is scheduled to report quarterly results on Tuesday while Cisco Systems Inc.  and Macy’s Inc.  will announce on Wednesday. Toyota  of Japan, struggling to recover from a spate of recalls and a devastating earthquake and tsunami, will issue earnings on Wednesday. Volatility in oil and gold prices could spill into the stock market again next week. In the past week, a severe drop in precious metals, led by silver, spurred a broad selloff in oil and other commodities. A drop in energy prices bodes well for stocks over the long haul, say analysts. “The weakening of commodities prices is positive for equities: weaker prices ease consumer wallets, weakening of inflation means ‘easier’ Fed and underperformance of commodities results in inflows into equities,” said Tom Lee, chief U.S. equity strategist at J.P. Morgan, in a research note. But in the short term, falling oil prices roil markets because energy stocks make up big parts of the major indexes. The energy sector has the third-heaviest weighting on the S&P; 500 and fell nearly 7% last week. The stock market had a rough ride in the past five sessions, with all major indexes losing more than 1% as several economic indicators painted a grim macro-economic picture. Stocks closed Friday higher, however, as the April payrolls report erased some of those worries. Weekly applications for unemployment compensation surged by 43,000 to a seasonally adjusted 474,000 in the week ended April 30, the highest since August, said the Labor Department. Economists had expected a slide to 412,000. The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index slowed for a second month, while the ISM services index sank to 52.8% last month from 57.3% in March — the lowest since August 2010 and biggest one-month drop since November 2008. The one silver lining was news that 244,000 jobs were added in April as the private sector went on a hiring spree. Still, U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9%, according to government data released Friday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed at 12,638.74, down 1.3% for the week, while the S&P; 500 ended at 1,340.20, posting a weekly loss of 1.7%. The Nasdaq Composite Index ended at 2,827.56, down 1.6% in a week. Read MarketWatch’s stock market roundup 
U.S. stock futures pointed to opening gains Tuesday as Microsoft Corp. confirmed plans to acquire Internet phone company Skype Technologies SA for $8.5 billion. Stock-index futures maintained gains after the government said prices of goods imported into the U.S. climbed more than expected in April. The Labor Department data showed a 2.2% rise in the import-price index after a revised 2.6% gain in March. “This data highlights clearly the inflationary implications of a weak U.S. dollar when we have a trade deficit as large as ours. The weak U.S. dollar certainly helps the export side in terms of competitiveness and revenues but we import a lot more than we export at an ever-growing cost,” Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, said in an email note. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  rose 5.3 points to 1,348., while Nasdaq 100 futures  gained 10.25 points to 2,396.75. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 44 points to 12,675. In other economic news, China reported an April trade surplus of $11.4 billion as exports surged, compared to $1.68 billion in the year-earlier period, and $139 million in March. The surplus was far above expectations for a figure of around $1 billion. The data provided some support for commodities and the mining sector, in turn boosting overall risk appetite, said Michael Hewson, market analyst at CMC Markets. Mergers and acquisitions are likely to remain a recurring, positive theme for equity markets in coming months, “even allowing for a slowdown in the global economy because corporate balance sheets are in fairly good shape” outside of the financial sector, Hewson said. Morten Kongshaug, equities strategist at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, said U.S. markets continue to find support on strong earnings growth, but said rising commodity prices are likely to contribute to a squeeze on earnings in coming quarters. He expects equities to end the year above current levels, but says range-bound conditions may become the norm in coming months as the market transitions from earnings-driven growth to value-driven growth. In earnings news, Celanese Corp.   on Tuesday lifted its 2013 earnings outlook ahead of an investor conference. The materials-and-chemicals group said it now expects 2013 adjusted earnings per share of at least $6, or operating Ebitda of at least $1.7 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet Research had forecast 2013 earnings of $5.63. Shares of Tenet Healthcare Corp.  and Community Health Systems Inc.  will be watched after Community Health said Monday night that it had withdrawn its offer to acquire all Tenet shares. Tenet earlier Monday rejected Community Health’s latest offer of $7.25 a share, or $3.52 billion, in a five-month takeover battle between the hospital operators. Wholesale trade data for March are set for release at 10 a.m. Eastern. European stock markets were mostly higher as investors digested Chinese trade data and a further round of earnings, although peripheral markets remained under pressure on debt fears. Wall Street posted a second day of gains Monday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rising 45.94 points to close at 12,684.68. In the commodity markets, crude for June delivery   dropped 79 cents to $101.76 a barrel in electronic trade. Exchange operator CME Group Inc.  on Monday raised margin requirements for trade in a range of oil products, effective Tuesday. 
Energy stocks led a big sell-off on Wall Street Wednesday after a bearish weekly oil supply update hung over the sector, while the broad market lost ground and crude-oil futures tumbled. Energy stock components of the S&P; 500 fell 3.4%, the worst showing among 10 sub-sectors tracked by FactSet Research. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said U.S. petroleum inventories rose by 3.8 million barrels, more than double the forecast of 1.6 million barrels in a survey of Wall Street analysts by Platts. Gasoline stockpiles grew by 1.3 million barrels, compared to the analysts’ estimate for a drop of 300,000 barrels. Setting a negative tone for the energy sector, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 130 points and crude oil for June delivery dropped 5% to $98.21 a barrel. DJIA components Exxon Mobil and Chevron Corp.  both fell 2%. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  fell 2.9% to 1,299. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  retreated by 2.4% to 668. The Philadelphia Oil Service Index  dropped 3% to 261. Movers in the energy sector included Range Resources  , down 4.7% and Denbury Resources , down 4.1%; and Helmerich & Payne Inc. , down 3.4%. Nabors Industries  gave up 4.9% and QEP Resources  fell 3.8%. Among stocks in the spotlight, Kosmos Energy Ltd.   gained 1% in its stock market debut on Wednesday. The initial public offering from the oil producing firm closed at $18.24, above its IPO price of $18. Pipeline giant Enbridge Inc.  ,  said Wednesday its first-quarter profit rose to C$393 million, or $1.04 a share, from C$342 million, or 92 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Enbridge said its adjusted earnings rose to 89 cents a share from 86 cents. Revenue increased to C$4.7 billion, from C$3.98 billion. Based on current exchange rates, Enbridge earned 93 cents a share in U.S. currency, ahead of the forecast of 90 cents a share in a survey of analysts by FactSet Research. U.S.-listed share of Enbridge dipped 1.5%. Devon Energy Corp.  said late Tuesday it received approval from the Brazilian government for the announced sale $3.2 billion sale of its Brazil assets to BP PLC .  “We expect to close the transaction later this week, completing the strategic repositioning of Devon,” said John Richels, Devon’s president and chief executive officer. “Devon’s focus is now on its highly competitive North American onshore exploration and production business.” Shares of Devon fell 2.7%. 
Shares of Cisco Systems Inc. sank Thursday on concerns over the tech bellwether’s weak outlook and the uncertainty surrounding its ongoing reinvention. The stock  tumbled 4.8% to close at $16.93, becoming the top decliner on the Dow Jones Industrial Average . But the Dow ended the session up 66 points. Cisco beat earnings estimates, but the company quickly signaled that it expects to see a weak fiscal fourth quarter. The company also unveiled plans to cut $1 billion in annual costs and to reduce its workforce, as Chief Executive John Chambers reiterated his team’s plan for major changes. But in the wake of mounting competition and a shaky public-sector market in which Cisco has taken some hits, many analysts are seeing the networking-equipment maker entering a time of uncertainty. “We applaud the bold corrective initiatives recently announced,“ Canaccord Genuity analyst Paul Mansky wrote in a note. “However, the next two quarters (at minimum) will be execution-heavy and catalyst-light — exacerbated by switch-segment scrutiny and anniversary of difficult comparisons.” Mansky downgraded the stock to hold from buy, saying: “We are stepping to the sidelines on what has been a challenged thesis and looking to re-engage as fundamentals show signs of stabilization — possibly late this (calendar) year.” Baird analyst Jayson Noland also pulled the stock’s rating to neutral from outperform, noting that Cisco management “has acknowledged its primary challenges, though we don’t believe significant public exposure and switching gross-margin issues will be corrected in the near to medium term.” Brian White of Ticonderoga Securities also pointed out that the switch market “is going through major market transitions at the moment, as competition has increased and the overall market is expected to be growth-challenged in 2011, while public spending remains at the mercy of debt-burdened governments.” Wunderlich Securities analyst Matthew Robison said Cisco “is not without market opportunity, but competition is making for tough comparisons, especially in switching.” Some analysts welcomed Cisco’s bid to reinvent itself into a nimbler, faster-moving company. It has been criticized for its boards and council system that some analysts say has slowed down decision-making, even as Cisco sought to expand to new markets. Cisco appears to be veering away from that system, as well as drastically cutting expenses. “Cisco’s notorious boards and council structure will be refined and rationalized,” Lazard Capital analyst Ryan Hutchinson wrote in a note. “One billion dollars in F4Q run-rate expenses will be cut next year and could actually translate to modest upward earnings-per-share revisions despite the revenue reset.” Chief Executive John Chambers also backed away from the company’s long-term guidance of 12% to 17% annual revenue growth. “We clearly are taking 12% to 17% off the table on that,” Chambers told analysts. “We ran at that pace for about, I don’t know, a number of quarters, but no excuses. Here is where we are ... and we are going to do that one quarter at a time.” Hutchinson of Lazard Capital said that “with an aggressive reorganization effort in place, investors will have to be patient as it will likely take several quarters for benefits to accrue.” For the current quarter, Cisco said it expects revenue to be flat to up 2% from the year-earlier period, which translates to a range of roughly $10.8 billion to $11 billion. The company said it also expects adjusted earnings in the range of 37 cents a share to 39 cents a share. Analysts had expected the company to report adjusted earnings of 42 cents a share, on revenue of $11.6 billion, according to data from FactSet Research. 
U.S. stocks closed moderately lower as investors found little reason to diverge from a seasonal lull that often follows first-quarter earnings, with tech stocks faring the worst. The “sell in May and go away” adage has some fundamentals behind it, given that markets tend to move higher on economic data and earnings, said Marc Pado, U.S. market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. Following first-quarter earnings reports, stocks face a stretch where there’s not enough consumer spending to make a big difference in economic data, so markets are likely to drift. “After Easter, outside of the Fourth of July holiday you don’t have sales generated because of holidays until back-to-school spending in September,” he said. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 47.38 points, or 0.4%, at 12,548.37 after trading on either side of the flat line for much of the session. The S&P; 500 Index  closed down 8.3 points, or 0.6%, at 1,329.47 points, with tech and consumer discretionary sectors falling more than 1%. Amazon.com Inc.  fell nearly 5%, Yahoo Inc.  lost 4.5% and Monster Worldwide   slid 8.3%. Health care and utilities fared the best. “If there was a real catalyst for fear, money would be coming out of the market, but instead it is being rotated,” said Pado of the two-week trend of money flowing defensive sectors. Health care, utilities and consumer staples are typically considered defensive sectors, or better positioned if investors seek safety. The Nasdaq Composite Index  closed down 46.16 points, or 1.6%, to 2,782.31. Decliners outpaced advancers by 2-to-1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where 907 million shares traded. “Every time you go down, you reach a level where someone is wiling to take on the added risk,” said Pado at Cantor Fitzgerald. “We’re holding up on pullbacks because the big picture is very supportive of market values, even though overbought conditions bring us to down days,” Pado added of Wall Street’s initial slide. Crude-oil futures   closed down $2.28, or 2.3%, at $97.37 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the M&A; front, shares of NYSE Euronext Inc.  fell 13% after Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  withdrew their bid for the rival exchange. The day’s economic data gave little support. Manufacturing activity in the New York area grew at a slower-than-expected pace in May as the cost of materials rose, with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reporting that its index of economic activity declined to 11.9 from 21.7 in April. The survey comes as part of “a continuing spate of softening economic data,” noted Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, in an email. Later data had the National Association of Home Builders reporting its index of builder confidence remained unchanged in May, at 16. 
 By , MarketWatch , Shri Navaratnam and Wei-Zhe Tan HONG KONG (MarketWatch) –- Chinese and Australian shares advanced Tuesday as investors piled into beaten-down commodity related sectors, while stocks in Mumbai were hit by disappointing results from State Bank of India. Many of the region’s benchmark indexes ended with modest gains or losses during the choppy session. Investors remained wary after Wall Street extended losses Monday, and as European policy makers continued to debate how to help debt-stricken Greece. “Early indicators are that investors will maintain the caution and nervousness of recent days,” said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The nature, timing and extent of any restructuring of Greece’s sovereign debt continue to be a source of uncertainty,” he said. China’s Shanghai Composite Index   erased sharp early losses to finish 0.1% higher at 2,852.77. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average   also bounced off the day’s lows to end up 0.1% at 9,567.02. Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  rose 0.7% to 4,683.90 and New Zealand’s NZX 50 added 0.4% to 3,558.05. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  lost 0.3% to 22,901.08 and South Korea’s Kospi slipped 0.1% to 2,102.41. Taiwan’s Taiex fell 0.3% to 8,884.09 and the main Philippine index dropped 0.9% to 4,261.60. Stock markets in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand were closed for holidays. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were up 7 points in screen trade. In afternoon trading, India’s Sensex  tumbled 1.3% to 18,112.84. SBI  shares tumbled 6.5% after the country’s largest lender reported that fiscal fourth-quarter net profit plunged 99% from the year-earlier period because of a steep increase in loss provisions toward bad loans. The results, which fell short of expectations, also pulled down some other lenders, with Icici Bank Ltd.    shedding 2.9% and Bank of Baroda  losing 2.2%. Resource-sector stocks aided a sharp rebound from initial losses in Shanghai, with the recovery also helping the Sydney market expand gains. The rise in Shanghai came as investors snapped up coal stocks and some other materials stocks. In a Tuesday note, analysts at Credit Suisse maintained their overweight stance on the market, which they noted was among the worst performing since 2010 “despite the country’s better fundamentals and growth outlook.” Shares of China Coal Energy Co.      rose 2.1% and Datong Coal Industry Co.  climbed 4.3% in Shanghai; in Hong Kong, China Coal climbed 0.9%. 
Shares of NYSE Euronext Inc. fell for a second day Tuesday after rivals Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. withdrew their roughly $11 billion bid for the stock-exchange operator. Shares of NYSE Euronext  shed almost 4%. Analysts at Argus downgraded NYSE Euronext shares to hold from buy. “With Nasdaq  and ICE  out of the picture, it’s highly unlikely that another suitor for NYX will emerge; it’s also unlikely that Deutsche Boerse    will increase its own offer,” the analysts wrote in their note. Janus Capital Group Inc. , off almost 5%, was the steepest decliner among the financial stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index . On the upside, Wells Fargo & Co.’s   shares added 2%. In the broader financial sector, the Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded fund , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500, recovered from an early slump, inching up 0.2%. Among the four financial stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , Travelers Cos. , American Express Co.  and Bank of America Corp. fell. Meanwhile, shares of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. rose. 
Most Asian markets rose Wednesday as U.S. dollar weakness and a rebound in many commodities encouraged investors to temporarily look beyond Greece’s debt problems and soft U.S. economic data to snap up stocks that have lost ground recently. Japanese stocks advanced on the back of banks and utilities. Several resource stocks sparkled in the region, supporting Australian shares in particular after a Moody’s downgrade of the nation’s four largest banks weighed on the sector in afternoon trading. The day’s gains came despite Tuesday’s weakness on Wall Street. They were aided by higher U.S. index futures and the U.S. dollar’s weakness, which analysts often view as a signal of improved investor sentiment. “If the U.S. dollar stays at the current level, I don’t think the markets can go up much further, as investors will worry about further unwinding of the [dollar] carry trade,” said Ben Kwong, chief operating officer at KGI Asia. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average   rose 1% to 9,662.08. South Korea’s Kospi added 1.6% to 2,135.78 and Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  gained 0.2% to 4,693.70. China’s Shanghai Composite  advanced 0.7% to 2,872.77, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index   climbed 0.5% to 23,011.14 and Taiwan’s Taiex edged up 0.7% to 8,944.84. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures rose 39 points in screen trade. In Tokyo, banks and utility stocks climbed after their recent underperformance. Among lenders, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.    rose 3.5%, while Mizuho Financial Group Inc.    tacked on 3.2% on news Japan’s second biggest bank by assets is considering a merger of its retail and wholesale units. Tokyo Electric Power Co.    jumped 2.4%, ending a four-day sell-off. Dell Inc.’s  first-quarter earnings and forecasts buoyed some of the region’s tech firms, spurring Toshiba Corp.    up 2.1% and Fujitsu Ltd.    up1.4% in Tokyo. Several resource sector stocks gained as commodities priced in the U.S. dollar gained in Asian trading hours on the greenback’s weakness against major currencies. The U.S. dollar index  , which measures the greenback’s performance against six major global currencies, was recently 0.2% lower at 75.26. Shares of Inpex Corp.    rose 3% in Tokyo; BHP Billiton Ltd.    added 0.3% and Santos Ltd.  rose 1.3% in Sydney; PetroChina Co.    rose 1% and Jiangxi Copper Co.  rose 2.1% in Hong Kong. Nymex June crude-oil futures were up $1.60 at $98.51 on Globex. Spot gold was at $1,494.60 per troy ounce, up $7.60 from its New York settlement Friday. Gains in Sydney were capped by Greece’s debt troubles, and as some banks retreated or pared gains after Moody’s downgraded the debt ratings of the country’s four major banks. “Greece still seems to be the bad smell hanging around and that certainly put a dampener on European and U.S. markets overnight. I think people are on the sidelines because they think maybe there is some more bad news to come out and they don’t see much upside at the moment,” said MarketsPlus head of sales trading Scott Johnson. Commonwealth Bank of Australia     shed 0.2% and Westpac Bank Corp.    dropped 0.1%, reversing gains after Moody’s downgrade. Indian stocks ended lower as worries about inflation continued to weigh on investor sentiment, sending shares of Tata Motors Ltd.    and Icici Bank Ltd.    by 3.4% and 0.7% lower. State Bank of India  dropped 2.4%, following its weak fiscal fourth quarter results on Tuesday, when the stock tumbled 7.8%. Elsewhere in the region, Singapore Straits Times Index added 0.2%, Indonesian shares gained 1.1%, Thailand’s SET index fell 0.8%, New Zealand’s NZX 50 ended little changed, while Philippine stocks rose 1%. In foreign exchange markets, the euro rose against the U.S. dollar and its Asian rivals, supported by expectations of further monetary policy tightening from the European Central Bank. Weaker U.S. data on Tuesday, including housing starts, also bolstered the single currency. “The possibility of all-encompassing measures to help restore confidence in Greece and Portugal’s bailout appears to have provided the euro a platform for short-term strength,” said Chris Gore, currency analyst at GOMarkets in Sydney. The euro was fetching $1.4259 from $1.4237 late in New York trade Tuesday, and 115.55 yen from ¥115.90. The dollar also fell to ¥81.05 from ¥81.43. 
U.S. stocks rose Wednesday in a partial bounce-back from their recent slide, as results from personal-computer maker Dell Inc. helped boost sentiment and offset a disappointing forecast from retailer Staples Inc. The major indexes added to their advance after the afternoon release of minutes from the Federal Reserve’s April meeting, which showed the central bank’s members divided on whether to hike interest rates this year. “The Federal Reserve discussed numerous ‘exit strategies’ at its latest FOMC meeting, but it stressed that these discussions did not entail immediate actions,” said Gregory Daco, U.S. senior economist at IHS Global Insight, in written comments. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   quit three days of losses to end up 80.6 points, or 0.7%, at 12,560.18. Out of 30 components, 23 gained, with percentage advancers led by Caterpillar Inc.   Chevron Corp.  and Exxon Mobil Corp.  were also among the top blue-chip gainers, as crude-oil futures topped $100 a barrel and after a Democratic proposal to strip $2 billion in annual tax subsidies to the two oil giants and three others failed in the U.S. Senate. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   added 11.7 points, or 0.9%, to 1,340.68, with natural-resource and energy leading the gains among its 10 industry groups. Utilities was the only sector lower. The cyclical sectors, including energy and materials, were at the frontlines of the advance from the bear market low in March 2009 but have started to lag more defensive sectors, such as telecoms and consumer staples. Uncertainty about how the market will respond once the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative-easing program in June, and some disappointing economic data and corporate reports, have caused some investors to shift their portfolio towards sectors seen as less volatile. But there are still pockets of optimism about the recovery, making day-to-day trading choppy. “Some days investors on balance believe that there’s a serious slowdown that lies ahead. Some days they don’t have that conclusion. It’s on again, off again,” said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at Hugh Johnson Advisors. “There’s a great deal of uncertainty whether this will be curtains for the bull market and recovery or this will just be midcycle slowdown. Today, it’s probably just a midcycle slowdown,” he said. On Wednesday, the bulls took heart from earnings reports from Dell  , which late Tuesday reported stronger-than-forecast profit and raised its outlook for the year. Dell shares closed up 5.4%. Also, Deere & Co.  said its fiscal second-quarter profit rose 65% as rising crop prices supported demand for its equipment. But shares slid 0.5% on concerns profit growth was decelerating. “Encouraging news from Dell Inc. yesterday and Deere & Co.   this morning should give equity investors a momentary lift,” said Fred Dickson, chief investment strategist at Davidson Cos. Discount-retailer Target Corp.   also reported a larger-than-expected rise in quarterly profit. Hewlett-Packard Co.   led the Dow’s decliners, with shares off 1.1% a day after the company reported that weak PC sales curbed second-quarter profit. Staples Inc.   shares tumbled 15% after the office-supplies chain reported profits that missed expectations, as demand in Canada and Europe weakened. Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, chalked up the market’s more defensive posturing this month as more to do with concerns about growth and earnings and less to do with any Fed-related worries. “It is our belief that the most bullish forecasters predicting optimistic equity returns over 2011 and 2012 are — once again — going to have to revise their projections,” said Greenhaus, who added that the market’s defensive stance is illustrated by the four best-performing industry groups in May as of Monday’s close: health care, utilities, staples and telecom. The Nasdaq Composite Index   ended up 31.79 points, or 1.1%, to 2,815. For every stock falling, about four gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 884 million shares traded hands, or 94% of the last month‘s volume. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, commodities rose for the first day in three, with oil futures  closing up 3.3% at $100.10 a barrel and gold futures   finishing at $1,495.80 an ounce, up $15.80. A late rally Tuesday helped curb steep losses in the Dow, which fell as much as 170 points during the session but closed down 68.79 points, or 0.6%, to 12,479.58. 
Limited Brands Inc. shares turned higher in late trading Wednesday, while stock in PetSmart Inc. continued to climb following better-than-expected quarterly results. Limited  shares recently traded up 2.5% to $43.50, sloughing off earlier losses. The company, whose stores include Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, said it expects adjusted earnings of 38 cents to 43 cents a share in the second quarter, and $2.25 to $2.45 a share for the year. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters currently estimate second-quarter earnings of 43 cents a share and $2.44 a share for the year. For its first quarter, adjusted earnings at Limited Brands were 40 cents a share, a penny a share above the Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. Revenue increased to $2.22 billion from $1.93 billion a year ago, with revenue in the most recent period meeting expectations. Net earnings rose to $165.2 million, or 50 cents a share, from $112.5 million or 34 cents a share in the year-ago period. Limited’s shares finished the regular session up 2%, leaving their year-to-date gain at 38%. Shares of Advance Auto Parts Inc.  were pulled 8.1% lower at $64.92 as the retailer’s quarterly results fell short of expectations. First-quarter net earnings were $109.6 million, or $1.35 a share. Average diluted shares outstanding declined 11% from the year-ago period. Wall Street had expected per-share earnings of $1.38. Advance Auto’s revenue for the most recent period increased 3.7% to $1.9 billion, and analysts had pegged sales at $1.92 billion. The company said it expects to deliver on its previously released forecast for yearly earnings of $4.60 to $4.80 per share. But PetSmart  stock extended late-session gains, rising 5.4% to $44.80. The pet-products retailer said first-quarter net earnings were $70.9 million, or 61 cents a share, up from $55.6 million or 46 cents a share a year ago. Sales came in at $1.49 billion, up from $1.4 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected 53 cents a share in earnings on $1.48 billion in revenue. PetSmart also raised its 2011 earnings forecast to a range of $2.32 to $2.42 a share. It had previously expected earnings of $2.23 to $2.35 a share. Wall Street currently expects $2.36 a share in earnings. For the second quarter, PetSmart expects earnings of 47 cents to 51 cents a share. Analysts are looking for 49 cents a share. U.S. stocks rose ahead of the late-trading session. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 81 points, or 0.6%, to 12,560.18. The S&P; 500 Index  advanced 0.9% to 1,340.68 and the Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 1.1% to 2,815. 
Japanese stocks fell for the first time in three days Thursday on data showing the nation’s economy contracted sharply in the quarter to March 31, while South Korean shares were hit by a sixth straight day of selling by foreigners. But Australian and Hong Kong shares were in an opposite camp, rallying on the back of gains on Wall Street and a bounce in commodity prices overnight. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  fell 0.4% to 9,620.82, South Korea’s Kospi skidded 1.9% to 2,095.51, China’s Shanghai Composite  declined 0.5% to 2,859.57, Taiwan’s Taiex gave up 0.6% to 8,892.88 and the main Philippine index slipped 0.1% to 4,297.93. Meanwhile, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  rose 1.3% to 4,756.40, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  gained 0.7% to 23,163.38 and New Zealand’s NZX 50 added 0.3% to 3,569.00. In afternoon trading, India’s Sensex  advanced 0.4% to 18,152.93. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were recently down seven points in screen trade. Stock losses in Tokyo came after data showed the March 11 disasters resulted in a 0.9% contraction in the January-March period from the preceding three months, or a 3.7% annualized decline. The fall marked the second consecutive quarter of contraction, taking Japan into what economists call a “technical recession.” Frederic Neumann, HSBC’s co-head of Asian economics, said that the data indicated Japan’s economy was stuck in “a dangerously low orbit” and would need another boost from the Bank of Japan. “Don’t expect an announcement at the meeting tomorrow. But an expansion of the central banks’ asset purchase program looks now more likely,” he said, referring to the central bank’s scheduled policy meeting. Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.    fell 2.1%, Advantest Corp.    dropped 3.4% and JFE Holdings Inc.    lost 1.6%. “There are no buying incentives, especially after the disappointing GDP numbers, but the bottom seems to be supported by a stable yen,” said Investrust chief executive Hiroyuki Fukunaga. Shares of some Japanese utilities resumed their fall after rising on Wednesday. The drop came after Prime Minister Naoto Kan Wednesday raised the possibility of splitting up electricity generation and distribution businesses. Tokyo Electric Power Co.   , which will release its fiscal year results Friday, tumbled 8%, Tohoku Electric Power Co.    dropped 3.2% and Chubu Electric Power Co.  gave up 5.1%. Several resource sector stocks gained after commodities prices rose in the U.S. In Sydney, BHP Billiton Ltd.    and Rio Tinto Ltd.    added 1.2% and 1.3%, respectively, while in Hong Kong, Cnooc Ltd.    climbed 1.5% and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.    added 1.6%. PetroChina Co.    added 0.6% in Hong Kong and 0.2% in a downbeat Shanghai market. Sentiment in some markets also got a lift from Wall Street’s rise Wednesday and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s minutes showing the central bank will continue to support the economy and that policy makers were in no hurry to tighten monetary policy. Spot gold was at $1,490.40 per troy ounce, down $6.50 from its New York settlement Wednesday. June Nymex crude-oil futures were down 21 cents at $99.89 a barrel on Globex. In Seoul, several stocks were hammered down amid continued foreign selling, with Hyundai Motor Co.  shrinking 2.1%, KB Financial Group Inc.  losing 2.2% and Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  skidding 3.8%. Elsewhere in the region, Singapore’s Straits Times Index rose 1%, Thailand’s SET slipped 0.2% and Indonesian stocks added 0.4% in afternoon trading. In foreign exchange markets, the yen weathered the worse-than-expected Japan GDP data, as some traders said the market is more focused on upcoming quarters to gauge the impact of the March natural disasters. “If the trade data shows Japan’s exports deteriorating, the yen will likely weaken further because of demand/supply issues,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank. The dollar was fetching 81.92 yen from ¥81.68 late Wednesday in New York. The euro was buying ¥116.48 from ¥116.39, and $1.4220 from $1.4250. Lead Japanese government bond futures were down 0.07 at 140.57 points, weighed by losses in U.S. Treasurys Wednesday. The 10-year JGB cash yield was up 0.5 basis points at 1.155%. The New Zealand dollar rose slightly after ratings agency Standard & Poor’s said that country’s budget was consistent with its current ratings, which was viewed by investors as reducing the risk of a downgrade. The Kiwi dollar was recently at $0.7902, up from Thursday’s low of $0.7874. 
Shares of BlackRock Inc. climbed 2.5% Thursday on word the company was buying back a stake from Bank of America Corp., but weak economic and manufacturing data pulled down the broader financial sector. BlackRock  said it will pay $187.65 a share, or $2.55 billion, to repurchase 13.56 million Series B convertible preferred shares from Bank of America  . “The shares will be retired following the close of the transaction, which will be immediately accretive to earnings per share,” BlackRock said. Bank of America shares were down 0.9%. In the broader financial sector, the Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded fund , which tracks the financial stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , was flat after a wave of weak economic data. Stock gains faded after the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said an index tracking regional business activity expanded at a much slower pace in May. It dropped to 3.9 from 18.5 in April, falling far short of expectations for a rise to 20.1. Also, home resales fell 0.8% in April, according to the National Association of Realtors. Economists had expected a rise. Separately, the Conference Board said its leading economic index slipped 0.3% in April, its first monthly decline since June. The three of the four financial stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average  — J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , Travelers Cos. Inc. , and Bank of America — all moved modestly lower. The one exception was American Express Co. , shares of which were up 1.5%. 
Shares of Anadarko Petroleum Corp. led gains in the energy sector on Friday after a legal settlement between Macondo well stakeholder Moex Offshore and BP PLC. In energy futures, crude for July delivery  rose 1% to $99.49 a barrel, after losing ground earlier in the day. The rise in energy stocks came despite a drop in the broad equities market, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  falling 0.7%. Checking the major energy sector gauges, the NYSE Arca Oil Index  dipped 0.2% to end at 1,289. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  rose 1% to 676. The Philadelphia Oil Service Index   rose 0.2% to 265. Collectively, energy stock components of the S&P; 500 Index  rose 0.3%. An upside standout, shares of Anadarko Petroleum rose 4.1%. Anadarko held a 25% ownership stake in the Macondo well, site of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. Shares of BP PLC  rose 2.5%. Earlier, BP announced a $1.065 billion settlement with Moex Offshore 2007 LLC and its affiliates to settle claims related to the deadly explosion and spill. Moex, which is majority-owned by Japan’s Mitsui & Co. , had a 10% interest in the Macondo well. Analysts said the price paid by Moex may suggest a lower-than-expected settlement cost for Anadarko. The settlement won’t mark the end of legal maneuvering around the disaster, however. Analysts note that civil and criminal fines, as well as punitive damages, await in the future. Meanwhile, analysts at Tudor Pickering Holt upgraded their rating on National Oilwell Varco  to buy and said the oil-service firm’s stock is a good value. “With oil above $90 a barrel, continued strong demand for high quality assets, and customers willing to commit to contracts at decent rates well ahead of deliveries, the ultra deepwater market looks strong ... a positive for NOV,” analysts said. Shares of National Oilwell Varco fell 0.3%. Among other movers in the energy sector, Southwestern Energy Co.  rose 2.4%. Also Friday, Tokyo Electric Power Co.  , disclosed a $15.3 billion loss for its fiscal year ended March 31. About 80% of that figure, or $12.2 billion, comes from the planned closure and decommissioning of reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant and efforts to contain radiation after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, according to reports. The radiation leak is considered the worst since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the former U.S.S.R. Energy stocks ended the week with modest gains. The NYSE Arca Oil Index ended at 1,289 on Friday, up 6 points from its week ago close. On Monday, the index touched its lowest level since January. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index finished the week at 676, up from 663 one week ago. The Philadelphia Oil Service Index closed at 265 on Friday, up from its ending point of 263 seven days ago. 
Manufacturers that have cashed in on China’s frenetic growth took a hit on Monday when preliminary economic data suggested further cooling in the country’s factory activity. The impact was perhaps most apparent with Caterpillar Inc. , whose shares led decliners in the Dow Jones Industrial Average  with a 2.3% drop to finish at $101.89. The blue-chip benchmark lost 131 points to close at 12,381 Caterpillar has made China a big focus in the coming years, having earmarked $1 billion for expansion in the still-booming country. So any sort of bearish news on prospects in the region understandably spooks Caterpillar investors, according to Edward Jones analyst Jeff Windau. Just such a report landed Monday, with a preliminary China purchasing managers’ index showing that manufacturing activity slowed to a 10-month low, according to an HSBC survey. “Early PMI numbers coming in below expectations is definitely putting pressure on the market,” Windau said. “Investors in these machinery-type names are clearly concerned about growth slowing down.” Some of the others paying the price were mining-equipment maker Joy Global , down 3.1% to end at $87.54, and Cummins Engine Co. , off by 2.1% to close at $104.16. Both were among the hardest hit issues on the S&P; 500 Index for much of the day. Elsewhere, miner Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.   and oil-field-services company Halliburton Co. saw their shares shed about 2% each. Monday’s release, compiled from a smaller base than the regular PMI, gives a glimpse of what the broader survey will reveal next week. The results showed that momentum slowed to 51.1 from the April reading of 51.8. That’s below the long-term average of 52.3. Readings above 50 show an expansion in manufacturing activity, while those below indicate contraction. 
Shares of Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. turned higher in volatile trade Tuesday evening after the release of the videogame maker’s quarterly results and forecast. Meanwhile, a soft forecast cut into shares of Applied Materials Inc. Also trading lower were shares of American International Group Inc. following the pricing of its offering of common stock. Shares of Take-Two   rose 0.9% to $16.25. They had started the session down nearly 4% after coming off a brief trading halt, then reversed course for a gain of more than 2%. Take-Two said its net loss widened for its fourth fiscal quarter, but revenue surpassed Wall Street’s expectations. Its revenue forecast for the current period also was above expectations. However, its outlook for the full 2012 fiscal year may disappoint some investors, who were looking for a release of the best-selling “Grand Theft Auto” franchise for the period. Take-Two did say it has extended the employment contracts of the key developers on the franchise. For the fiscal fourth quarter, Take-Two posted a net loss of $22.4 million, or 27 cents a share, compared with a loss of $9.7 million, or 13 cents a share, for the same period last year. On an adjusted basis, it lost 18 cents a share. Revenue fell by 22% to $182.3 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had, on average, expected a loss of 39 cents a share on revenue of $147.8 million. Applied Materials Inc.’s stock  slumped 2% to $13.43 following the chip-equipment maker’s forecast. For its fiscal third quarter, the company expects sales to be down between 3% and 10% from the previous quarter. It also expects adjusted earnings in the range of 31 cents a share to 37 cents a share. Analysts are currently looking for earnings of 37 cents a share on revenue of $2.83 billion, according to a FactSet Research estimate. Applied Materials posted fiscal second-quarter revenue of $2.86 billion, up from $2.3 billion. Adjusted profit was 38 cents a share. Analysts had expected earnings of 37 cents a share on revenue of $2.77 billion, according to a consensus survey by FactSet Research. AIG shares  fell 1% to $29.17, dipping from levels seen just before the company’s offering of common stock priced at $29 each. AIG sold 100 million shares and the Treasury Department sold 200 million shares, for a total of 300 million. The offering raised $8.7 billion. That excludes the so-called greenshoe of 45 million shares. The pricing was the first step in the government’s effort to sell its majority stake in the bailed-out insurer. In other late-trading moves, TiVo Inc.  shares rose 1.5% to $9.55. The company swung to a first-quarter profit, thanks to damages paid by satellite broadcaster Dish Network Corp.   in the two companies’ long-running patent infringement battle. The digital video-recording-technology pioneer earned $139 million, or $1.04 a share. Service and technology revenue fell to $38.8 million from $43.2 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters were expecting service and technology revenue of $39.6 million from TiVo. TiVo expects to take a second-quarter loss of $25 million to $27 million, on service and technology revenue in the range of $46 million to $48 million. Wall Street currently expects $46 million in service and technology revenue. U.S. stocks during the regular session finished lower after a decline in a regional index of manufacturing activity. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 2 points, or 0.1%, to close at 1,316.28. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   gave up 25 points to 12,373 and the Nasdaq Composite Index   fell 0.3% to 2,749. 
Mexican stocks rose Thursday, with the market for a second straight session overcoming disappointing economic figures from the United States, Mexico’s largest trading partner. Mexican stocks, as tracked by the IPC equity index   rose 0.7% to 35,742.21. The market was led by gains among home building, industrial and retail stocks. Home builder Geo  climbed 3.9%. Industrial conglomerate Alfa   rose 1.3% and cement maker Cemex  picked up 0.6%. Shares of market heavyweight America Movil  rose 0.8%, but shares of fixed-line operator Telmex  fell 1%. Mexican stocks held off losses after the U.S. Commerce Department said its second estimate of economic activity showed expansion of 1.8%. But the figure was below expectations, with economists surveyed by MarketWatch forecasting a revision up to 2.2%. Other soft economic data was released in the U.S. Thursday. The number of people who filed applications for unemployment benefits rose by 10,000 last week to 424,000. A government official said no special factors were involved. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch had expected claims to decline to a seasonally adjusted 405,000. U.S. stocks managed to turn higher on Thursday, as technology and consumer discretionary stocks offset the weight of weaker economic data. The S&P; 500 Index  rose 0.4% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average   gained 8 points to 12,402.76. Mexico’s economy is tightly linked with the U.S. economy as Mexico sends about 80% of its products to the U.S. Meanwhile, Mexico’s Inegi statistics agency said Thursday that the country’s unemployment rate came in at 5.1% in April. The rate was lower than the year-ago period of 5.4%. However, it was higher than March of this year when the rate was 4.6%. The IPC index has closed higher for three consecutive sessions. Wednesday’s modest gain of 0.3% came as stocks pushed past a weaker-than-expect report about durable-goods orders in the U.S. The IPC has gained 1.3% this week, but is down more than 7% this year. On Friday, Mexico’s central bank is expected to release its decision on the benchmark interest rate, which analysts widely expect to be held at 4.5%. 
Hong Kong shares shook off an uncertain start to trade higher, and Japanese shares managed to stage a turnaround on Friday afternoon, with investors looking for bargains after recent losses. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  rose 1% to 23,117.59, paring weekly losses to 0.3%, helped by gains from PetroChina Co. , The oil producer and refiner rose 3.6% following reports that the company’s parent has bought shares in the company and plans to raise its stake further. Commodity markets were also firmer on Friday. Benchmark Nymex crude-oil futures rose 65 cents to $100.88 a barrel in electronic action, and gold futures were up $3.00 at $1,525.80 an ounce. Bargain hunters are coming into the market on perceptions that valuations in Asia have improved, said Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors. This, combined with the fact that the latest news out of Europe and the U.S. hasn’t been worse, is helping Asian equity markets, he said. Still, “global uncertainties regarding Europe, on top of softening economic indicators worldwide and worries about a hard landing in China,” remain key areas of concern for investors, he said. Other notable advancers in Hong Kong included Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.   , up 2.1%, while Lenovo Group Ltd.    climbed 4.2% after the computer maker posted solid results late Thursday. China’s Shanghai Composite Index  wavered between gains and losses in the session, slipping 0.1% to 2,733.92. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  edged up 0.2% to 9,578.42 in the afternoon session, as gains from Fujitsu Ltd.    , up 3.5%, worked to offset losses related to a stronger yen. The U.S. dollar traded at ¥81.02, down from ¥82 in late North American trading on Thursday. Among those suffering from the stronger yen, car maker Mitsubishi Motors Corp.    declined 2.1%. Also keeping a lid on gains in Japan, Sony Corp.    saw its stock fall 2.6% after posting a massive fiscal-year loss after the market close on Thursday. On the economic front in Japan, core consumer price index rose 0.6% from a year earlier, Japan’s Cabinet Office reported Friday. The gain — the first in more than two years — matched the consensus forecast from a Dow Jones and Nikkei survey of economists. Core CPI rose 0.4% from March. Turning to other regional Asia-Pacfic equity markets, South Korea’s Kospi  index rose 0.7% to 2,107.02, while the Australian S&P;/ASX 200 index  nudged up 0.6% at 4,685..60. Retailers were among the best performers in Sydney, with Billabong International Ltd.   , shares up 4.5%. Gains for consumer discretionary stocks helped the Dow Jones Industrial Average  end fractionally higher in the U.S. trading day on Thursday. 
Chinese stocks fell for a seventh straight session Friday as worries about inflation and slowing growth restrained buyers, while Japanese shares declined on concern over the nation’s economic outlook and the yen’s strength against the U.S. dollar. The two key markets defied broad regional gains, which came as bargain buyers circled back into stocks bruised in a selloff earlier in the week. Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  rose 0.5% to 4,684.0, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index  added 1% to 23,118.07, Taiwan’s Taiex edged up 0.3% to 8,810.00, South Korea’s Kospi climbed 0.4% to 2,100.24 and, in afternoon trading, India’s Sensex  advanced 1.1% to 18,246.92. The first four benchmarks ended the week with losses, and the Indian index also looked set for a similar downbeat weekly performance. China’s Shanghai Composite  was the region’s worst performing benchmark index of the day and the week. It ended at 2,709.95, down 1% from the close on Thursday and 5.2% from its finish last Friday. “The key theme I see now is the balance of risks between growth and inflation,” said RBS China economist Li Cui, adding that inflation is the bigger risk of the two. In addition to inflationary pressures and an expected economic slowdown in the second half of the year, investors in China have also been fretting over a potential liquidity squeeze because of the launch of a new board for foreign company listings in future. Huaneng Power International Inc.    declined 3.3%, Minmetals Development Co.  shed 4.1% and Zhongjin Gold Corp.  fell 2.6%. Shares of PetroChina Co.  rose 0.8% after the company announced that parent China National Petroleum & Chemical has raised its stake in the firm by about 0.2% and planned to further increase its stake by up to 2.0%. In Hong Kong, the PetroChina    stock shot up 3.8%. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  fell 0.4% to 9,521.94. Exporters were generally crimped by a firm yen against the U.S. dollar, while Sony Corp.    was also hurt after reporting a loss for the full-year ended March 2011, largely because of the impact from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Sony dropped 3.2%, while Honda Motor Co.    gave up 0.8% and Nintendo Co.    declined 0.9%. Economic data showing core consumer prices rose for the first time in more than two years also weighed on sentiment. “The [consumer-price index] uptick came mostly from higher materials costs being passed on to consumers rather than an increase in demand,” and that could hurt consumer spending, said Hideyuki Ishiguro, a strategist at Okasan Securities. Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures were down 9 points in screen trade. 
Shares of Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. climbed Friday evening after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the company’s Dificid antibacterial tablets. Optimer shares  rose 4.8% to $13.60. The company said the U.S. drug regulator approved Dificid tablets for use by adults 18 years of age and older. Dificid is the first antibacterial drug approved in 30 years to treat Clostridium difficile, a bacterial infection that can cause debilitating diarrhea, Optimer said in a statement. The illness is often spread in hospital and nursing-home settings. Optimer plans to launch Dificid in the U.S. during the third quarter of this year. Optimer in April signed a two-year, co-promotion agreement with Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. to market the tablets in the U.S. and to expedite the product launch. Shares of Cubist were up a penny to $38.30 in low volume. Meanwhile, late-traded Marvell  shares were off 2 cents at $16.15. They ended the regular session with an 11% jump after Marvell’s better-than-expected forecast. Late Thursday, Marvell forecast second-quarter revenue of $870 million to $910 million. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had been looking for $875.5 million in revenue. Marvell also backed its view that the first quarter “would be the low point” for the company as it anticipated growth in the second quarter. Evening-traded shares of Broadcom   ticked up 3 cents to $36.55. The stock climbed 5.4% in dayside trades after FBR Capital Markets added the communications-chip maker to its “Top Picks” list. The share-price moves by Marvell and Broadcom in the regular session helped push the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index   up 1.1%. Tech stocks, as measured by the Nasdaq Composite Index   rose 0.5% to 2,796.86 on Friday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  also rose Friday, up 39 points, or 0.3%, to 12,44.58. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   gained 0.4% to 1,331.10. But each of Wall Street’s major equity benchmarks fell for the week. 
U.S. stocks in the coming week will run a gauntlet of data expected to indicate a slowing economic recovery, but a few positive reports may prove enough to draw investors into a market accustomed to negative sentiment. Equity markets managed to pare losses by the end of last week, following a raft of mostly negative economic data including higher jobless claims, weaker-than-expected first-quarter economic growth, and a slump in pending home sales. One bright spot in economic data on Friday came from an increase in consumer sentiment for May. Against that backdrop, any positive news should be well received, said Sam Turner, senior portfolio manager of large cap stocks at RiverFront Investment Group. ”The fact the market has held in light of weak data is in itself a positive indication,” said Turner. Turner says the S&P; 500 could even hit 1,400 in July -- implying the index could rebound from current levels of 1,331 -- as materials, energy and tech sectors lead the advance. But it may be tough to hold those levels, assuming it gets there. “We expect a moderate pullback in the face of negative news,” he said. Small gains on both Thursday and Friday leading into Monday’s Memorial Day holiday weekend helped the major indexes trim weekly losses. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.6% for the week to close at 12,441.58, and the S&P; 500 Index  declined 0.2% to finish at 1,331.10, logging the fourth straight week of losses for both exchanges. The Nasdaq Composite Index  fell 0.2% for the week to close at 2,796.86, its second weekly loss in a row. There will be a new round of economic releases for investors to chew over next week, as well as monthly car sales from General Motors Co.  , Ford Motor Co.  , Toyota Motor Corp.  and others. And while the bulk of large companies have reported earnings, closely watched tech companies, including Intel Corp.  , Hewlett-Packard Co.  , Netflix Inc.  and Google Inc.  , could produce market-moving news at conferences next week. The focus could remain on the economy, however. Investors will start the market week with the release of the Chicago purchasing managers index and the Conference Board’s consumer confidence data for May. Wednesday brings the Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing activity report for May. Weekly jobless claims data will be released on Thursday. Then, on Friday, the ISM will release its services sector activity report for May, and the Labor Department will release nonfarm payrolls data for May. The manufacturing and PMI data next week may be filler until nonfarm payroll numbers come out on Friday, said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners. 
U.S. stocks rose for a fourth consecutive session Tuesday as optimism about financial help ahead for Greece offset earlier pressure from a disappointing reading on consumer confidence, but the benchmark indexes couldn’t recover their losses for the month of May. “While today’s economic releases were somewhat disappointing, news on the prospects of a Greece bailout has encouraged broad risk taking,“ said Joseph Tanious, market strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management. “With signs of the global economy losing momentum, investors need to prepare themselves for what could be a bumpy ride in the short-term,” he added. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed near the session’s high, up 128.21 points, or 1%, to 12,569.79, leaving the blue-chip index with a 1.9% loss for May — its first monthly decline in six months. Off 1.4% for the month, the S&P; 500 Index  added 14.10 points, or 1.1%, to 1,345.20, with technology rising the most and consumer-discretionary stocks staging the most restrained advance among its 10 industry groups. Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, quoted the 2011 Stock Trader’s Almanac as describing the summer rally as “the lowest close in May or June to the highest close in July, August or September.” While playing down the notion of a swoon in early June, he said he does believe the S&P; 500 could reach a recovery high in July. “Therefore, we believe it best to maintain a neutral exposure to equities, and overweight your exposure to consumer stables. Should this market resume its downward trend in the next month or so, this sector will likely outperform due to its defensive characteristics,” Stovall wrote in a note. The Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 38.44 points, or 1.4%, to 2,835.30. It logged a 1.3% decline for the month. Ahead of the opening bell, Wall Street drew a collective sigh of relief as Europe worked on a second bailout package for Greece, as the country struggles under the weight of its massive debt load. Stocks lost a bit of steam after the Conference Board’s consumer-confidence index fell to 60.8 in May from a revised 66 in April. Economists polled by MarketWatch had expected an increase to 67.5 for May. “The problem is [that] future retail sales are so tightly connected to confidence, this could pull retail sales down,” said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. Other economic data had little impact on equities, with the S&P;/Case-Shiller index of 20 metro areas showing single-family-home prices fell into double-dip territory in March. Separately, an index of manufacturing activity in the Chicago region dropped sharply to 56.6% in May from 67.6% in April. For every stock falling, three gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.5 billion shares traded by the close of the session. The U.S. dollar declined against other major currencies, while crude futures  rose $2.11 to end at $102.70 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Looking ahead, “all eyes should be focused on the dollar as it heads back to retest its May low,” said Brian Greenberg, owner of wealth-management firm Brian Greenberg & Associates in Marlton, N.J., adding that if the dollar declines, U.S. stocks are poised to continue higher. “Conversely, a rising dollar would indicate a slowing world economy and not good news for equities.” U.S. markets were closed Monday for Memorial Day. 
U.S. stocks dropped on Wednesday, with bank issues taking the brunt of the pressure, as Wall Street scaled back its economic growth outlook following another round of dour data. “What is most concerning here is the pace of the economic fall-off, and the risk is growing that the downside isn’t over,” said John Brady, MF Global’s senior vice president of global interest rate products. . Tallying its worst single-day point drop since June 2010, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 279.65 points, or 2.2%, to 12,290.14. Financial powerhouses Bank of America Corp. , down 4.3%, and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , off 3.4%, were among the blue-chip names getting slammed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   declined 30.65 points, or 2.3%, to 1,314.55 — its sharpest decline since Aug. 11, 2010. The Nasdaq Composite Index   shed 66.11 points, or 2.3%, to 2,769.19. For every stock rising, nearly four fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume neared 1.2 billion and composite volume topped 4.5 billion. Treasury prices rallied, pushing the benchmark 10-year note yield   below 3% for the first time since early December, while the dollar softened and oil prices fell. “This lower yield environment is going to hurt the banks, which in order to heal balance sheets have been rolling loans off their books, and making new loans at lower yields. The net interest margin for financials is really going to start feeling under pressure,” said Brady. Stocks fell after the day’s U.S. economic reports added to fears the economic recovery was stalling. American companies added 38,000 employees to their payrolls in the past month, according to data from ADP Employer Services. Economists had been expecting an increase of 175,000. The Institute for Supply Management reported that growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector slowed, with its closely watched gauge dropping to 53.5% in May from 60.4% in April. Stocks reached their lows of the day after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating, citing the increased risk “Greece will fail to stabilize its debt position” without restructuring its debt. On Tuesday, the Dow industrials finished May with a loss of 1.9%, their first monthly drop in six months. 
Chevron Corp. weighed on energy stocks on Thursday after the company confirmed a fire at its refinery in Pembroke, Wales, as the sector also absorbed a bearish weekly petroleum supply update. Chevron  shares fell 1.3% as the second-worst performer among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.   An explosion rocked the refinery at 6:15 p.m. local time, or 2:15 p.m. Eastern time, according to BBC. Chevron spokesman Sean Comey said an ”incident” occurred at the Pembroke Refinery and that emergency services were called and responded immediately and remain on the scene. “The fire has been extinguished,” Comey said in an e-mail to MarketWatch. “We are taking appropriate action to respond to the situation. We are still in the process of accounting for all personnel.” Elsewhere in the energy sector, crude-oil futures settled in positive territory at $100.40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  dropped 0.4% to 1,294, on top of big losses in the previous session. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  fell fractionally to 677. Bucking the trend, component EOG Resources  rose 2.5%. EOG is the biggest producer in the Eagle Ford shale, an area that drew a big investment from Marathon Oil in a $3.5 billion deal announced on Wednesday. The Philadelphia Oil Service Index  rose 0.8% to 267. Halliburton Co. and Nabors Industries , both components of the sector benchmark, rose about 2.7% and 2.3% respectively. In a bearish sign for the sector, U.S.petroluem stockpiles rose 2.9 million barrels in the past week, greater than the forecast of 1.9 million barrels in a survey of analysts by Platts. On the deal front, Progress Energy Resources Corp. ,  said it’s selling a share in its acreage in the Montney shale of British Columbia to Petronas, the Malaysian national oil company, for $1.1 billion. Progress will sell 50% of its working interest in its Altares, Lily and Kahta in the region. Both parties will also explore new opportunities to develop liquefied natural gas export capacity in British Columbia. Shares of Progress Energy fell 0.1%. Among stocks in the spotlight, Marathon Oil Corp. fell 0.3%. Deutsche Bank analyst Paul Sankey kept his buy rating on Marathon after the company announced a deal Wednesday to buy acreage in the Eagle Ford shale of southern Texas for $3.5 billion. “This was the move everybody felt Marathon had to do,” Sankey said in a note to clients. “Strategically, it makes perfect sense, but did they pay too much and can they execute? The good news is that by making the move pre-split, the stand-alone upstream now has a story to tell. ... They had to pay a lot, at least they bought a premium asset. Execution now becomes key.” By pre-split, the analyst was referring to the Marathon board’s approval this week of spinning off the company’s downstream operations to shareholders. Arch Coal  fell 4.8%. Scott Sweet of IPO Boutique said the company is scheduling an offering of 44 million shares for Friday in a bid to raise more than $1 billion. The St. Louis company said Tuesday it commenced the offering to help it pay for its acquisition of International Coal Group. Also in the coal arena, Alpha Natural Resources Inc.  dropped 4.5% a day after closing its acquisition of Massey Energy. 
LDK Solar Co. shares declined late Tuesday after the company’s quarterly revenue projection fell short of Wall Street’s current estimate. Late-traded shares of LDK Solar  shed 1.8% to $6.97, but they had been down more than 3% during the session. The company, a Chinese solar wafers and modules maker, said it expects second-quarter revenue of $710 million to $760 million. Analysts polled by FactSet Research currently expect $783 million in sales. LDK’s first-quarter profit leapt to $135.4 million, or 95 cents per American Depositary share, from $7.2 million, or 6 cents per ADS, in the same quarter a year ago. Revenue increased to $766.3 million from $347.6 million a year earlier. Analysts had forecast earnings of 86 cents a share on revenue of $778 million. Hovnanian Enterprises Inc.  shares also fell, down 5.6% to $2.21 in modest volume. The home builder’s fiscal second-quarter loss widened to $72.7 million, or 69 cents a share, from a loss of $28.6 million, or 36 cents a share, in the same quarter last year. Excluding land-related charges and gain from extinguishment of debt, Hovnanian’s pre-tax loss for the quarter was $55.1 million. Revenue decreased to $255.1 million from $318.6 million a year earlier. Analysts had expected Hovnanian to lose 53 cents a share on revenue of $265 million. Elsewhere, the Nasdaq-100 After Hours Indicator, which tracks evening trading of the index’s leading technology stocks, edged up 0.1% to 2,271.05. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks fell for a fifth consecutive day, turning lower following comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. In his speech, Bernanke said the U.S. economy will pick up in the second half of this year, but that economic recovery has been “uneven” and “frustratingly slow.” The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 19 points, or 0.2%, to 12,070.81. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   lost 0.1% to 1,284.94 and the Nasdaq Composite  gave up 1 point to end at 2,701.56. 
U.S. stock futures rose Thursday after a six-session losing streak for Wall Street, after the European Central Bank laid the ground for a rate hike and U.S. economic data showed a small bounce in jobless claims and the trade gap narrowing. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 44 points to 12,074 and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index gained 5.8 points to 1,282.8. Nasdaq 100 futures advanced 7 points to 2,255. The blue-chip Dow index  closed down 0.2% Wednesday, falling for a sixth consecutive trading day. The US. data Thursday came after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said earlier this week the recovery was continuing at a moderate pace, but would be uneven across sectors. Speaking in London, Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, said that the recent soft patch in the U.S. recovery is temporary and growth should rebound to a 3.0% to 3.5% pace over the rest of the year. European stock markets were little changed on Thursday following decisions by both the Bank of England and the European Central Bank to keep their key interest-rates on hold. On the corporate front, shares of Texas Instruments Inc. may come under selling pressure after the semiconductor firm lowered its outlook for revenue and earnings in the second quarter, citing weak demand from a single wireless customer, which is believed to be Finland’s Nokia Corp. Elsewhere in the sector, National Semiconductor Corp. is scheduled to report its fiscal fourth-quarter results after the market close Thursday. Most Asian markets finished lower Thursday, with the Shanghai Composite index dropping 1.7%. Hong Kong’s benchmark index closed down 0.2%. In the commodity markets, crude oil for July delivery   gained 87 cents to $101.61 a barrel in electronic trading on Globex, while gold for August delivery  gained $2.10 to $1,540.8 an ounce. The dollar index  , which tracks the performance of the greenback against a basket of other major currencies, was at 74.14. The euro stood at $1.4522. 
U.S. stocks dropped Friday, suffering their sixth consecutive week of losses, weighed by concerns about the global economy and a drop in energy stocks. Wall Street’s extended slide followed several weeks of economic reports that have largely disappointed investors. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 172.45 points, or 1.4%, to 11,951.91, its lowest close since March 18. Only three components ended higher. For the week, the blue-chip average lost 1.6%. The six-week losing period, which has knocked 6.7% from the Dow, is the longest stretch since October 4, 2002, when the index lost 15%. Worries about the global economy — from the prospects of a Greek default to smaller growth in Chinese exports — resurfaced Friday to hit stocks, as they have for most sessions this month. European stocks and some Asian markets also ended lower Friday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ended down 18.02 points, or 1.4%, to 1,270.98. It’s lost 2.2% for the week, its sixth straight loss, or the longest weekly losing stretch since July 2008. The S&P; 500’s energy sector fell 1.9%, tracking a nearly 3% drop in oil prices, after Saudi Arabia was reported to be planning to increase oil production and after the dollar rose against the euro as European officials clashed over how fix Greece’s debt problems. The financial sector, which had fallen more than 1% earlier, shed some of its early losses after a CNBC report that regulators may tone down a proposed requirement for the amount of extra capital large banks must hold. Bank of America Corp  turned higher to end up 1.4%, while J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.   rose 0.2% and Citigroup Inc.    edged up 0.4%. The Dow’s Friday drop was led by a 3.1% fall in Pfizer Inc.  shares. Travelers Cos.  shares also dropped 3.1% after the insurer said it was slowing its share-buyback program in light of natural disasters that cost it about $1 billion in April and May. As the U.S. economy struggles with the delayed impact of Japan’s March earthquake and a depressed housing market, bank stocks have been particularly hard hit, thrusting a spotlight on regulatory efforts that some executives say will depress lending further. The S&P; 500’s financial stocks have fallen nearly 10% this quarter. “Banks are a less attractive bet because there are cheaper companies out there that are easier to value,” said Karl Mills, chief investment officer at Jurika, Mills and Keifer in San Francisco. “Hedge funds are in the performance game so they’re pulling out.” The Nasdaq Composite Index  shed 41.14 points, or 1.5%, to 2,643.73, losing grip on year-to-date gains. The Nasdaq Composite has fallen for five of the past six weeks. The dollar rose 1% against the euro  and also strengthened against a basket of six currencies Decliners ran ahead of advancers by 4-to-1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume topped 1 billion. 
Economic data and the heated debate on Capitol Hill over raising the U.S. debt ceiling will likely be the biggest market catalysts next week, as U.S. investors brace themselves for a possible seventh straight week of losses. A spate of international, federal and regional economic reports are scheduled to be released, which could lead to further declines if they underscore concerns that a global slowdown is under way. “When you’re in between earnings seasons, the focus is on the economic data,” said Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments for USAA. “Investors will be looking to confirm the hypothesis that the economy has hit a soft patch.” The ongoing political debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling could also roil markets, according to John Brady, senior vice president of global futures and options for MF Global. “It’ll be all about the political drumbeat,” he said. “It could be a potentially volatile week.” Friday’s close marked the sixth straight week of declines for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, its worst streak since 2002, as investors were rattled by a string of economic data that indicated the global economic recovery was sputtering. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 1.6% at 11,952 for the week, clipping its year-to-date gains to 3.2%. The week ended on a particularly sour note after Chinese economic data showed exports growing at a slower annual rate in May than in the prior month. More data from the Middle Kingdom is expected on June 14, when the nation’s CPI numbers for May will be rolled out. “If we see much more slowing in China, that could concern the market,” said Bob Baur, chief global economist at Principal Global Investors. “China’s been a driver of the global expansion.” The S&P; 500  slid 2.2% in the past week at 1,271, reducing its 2011 gains to 1.1%. Financial stocks have been some of the hardest hit in the recent pullback, as investors exited a sector struggling with tepid loan growth and increased regulations. On Friday, the Federal Reserve proposed making annual decisions on whether the largest U.S. banks can pay dividends or repurchase stocks. But some of the big banks’ stocks managed to rebound late in the day after a media report suggesting regulatory capital requirements may be less than expected. Headlines on proposed regulations could cause more volatility in this heavily weighted sector in the week ahead. The Nasdaq Composite Index   fell 3.3% last week, and is now negative for the year. Earnings reports are sparse, and include results from electronics retailer Best Buy Co.  as well as BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd.   Figures for U.S. retail sales and retail sales excluding autos, also slated for June 14, will be closely watched as well. MF Global’s Brady said that because of steep gasoline prices, investors will be most keen at checking out the retail number excluding autos and gas. “That’s the big number for next week,” he added. “There’s a little bit of downside risk here.” 
Treasury prices headed back down slightly Monday afternoon, following a short-lived rebound after Standard & Poor’s downgraded Greece. Bonds had been lower in morning action, pushing yields up from near the lowest levels since December, with traders seeing little reason for much of a shift until it receives more information to prompt a rally or selloff. Yields on 10-year notes , which move inversely to prices, rose as high as 3.02%, before settling back to 2.98%, up 1 basis point on the day. A basis point is 1/100th of a percent. The benchmark security’s yields fell to 2.92% last week, the lowest yield in seven months. Yields on 2-year notes  increased as much as 5 basis points to 0.46%, then also reverted back to 0.40%, little changed on the day. Thirty-year-bond yields  rose 2 basis points to 4.21%. The market has “been hit with heavy news, passed the hurdles of auctions, and is telling us that it’s not prepared to do much of anything without new impetus,” said David Ader, head of government bond strategy CRT Capital Group, in a morning note. Apparently another downgrade of Greece’s rating wasn’t enough to do that. S&P; cut Greece to CCC from B without a negative outlook, reflecting a heightened risk of default, the rating agency said. Bond traders also saw little direction from U.S. stocks, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average  struggled to hold onto the 12,000 level. Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Richmond Fed, expressed worries about the slow pace of hiring in the manufacturing sector due to uncertainty about the strength and sustainability of the recovery as well as the future regulatory and tax environment. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has a speech scheduled in the evening. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York bought $4.62 billion in Treasury debt on Monday, part of a program that’s the centerpiece of the U.S. central bank’s loose monetary policy. Dealers offered to sell the Fed $16.2 billion in 2018-21 notes. The Fed buybacks will occur every day this week, while the Treasury has no note or bond auctions planned, setting up a supply-and-demand dynamic that supports bonds, analysts said. The key economic reports for the week are on U.S. retail sales and consumer prices, which are key indicators on growth and inflation. “Treasury 2-year note yields at 40 basis points probably press few investor buttons here, as we’re likely to see another uptick” in the annual consumer-price index, excluding food and energy, strategists at RBS Securities wrote in a note. 
 By Cody Willard, MarketWatch I’ve spent the last couple of weeks researching correlations between the broader macro economy and the stock market. We’ve been very successful and profitable in positioning for a new tech stock bubble since I launched this newsletter and my analysis continues to keep my bucket in front of that blowing up bubble. I have several research associates who put together the charts and data for us. Below we look at the major macroeconomic trends of the last handful of years and layer each one on top of the stock market. First thing you’ll notice is how remarkably correlated the macroeconomic trends are with the stock market in recent years. While the markets have always correlated with earnings over the long run and since earnings have always correlated with the broader economy over the long run, the market tends to reflect the broader economy over time. But never before has that reflection and correlation been this accurate and this direct and this quick. 
Shares of Scotts Miracle-Gro Co. fell Tuesday evening, under pressure after the maker of lawn and garden care products lowered its fiscal-year outlook. Scotts Miracle-Gro shares  were pushed 3% lower to $50.78, with the company saying a continuation of unfavorable weather in most of the U.S. has resulted in a slow pace of purchases by customers. The company now expects fiscal 2011 adjusted earnings of $3.10 to $3.20 a share, down from its previous forecast for earnings of $3.60 to $3.70 a shar. Analysts polled by FactSet Research currently expect earnings of $3.66 a share. Scotts Miracle-Gro also now expects “reporting sales in line” with its performance in fiscal 2010. Scotts Miracle-Gro in early May said it could achieve its original sales and earnings outlook “given a double-digit rebound of consumer activity for the balance of the year.” Purchases by consumers have increased by “only” 3% since that announcement, it said. “We needed to see a double-digit increase in consumer purchases in May and June but through mid-June we are still below last year’s levels in nearly every major market in the northern and western United States,” said Jim Hagedorn, chairman and chief executive officer at Scotts Miracle-Gro, in a statement. While weather has been the primary driver for the shortfall through May, the company was also “impacted by a more promotional retail landscape and changes in certain retailer strategies within the mass-merchandise channel,” said Hagedorn. Meanwhile, Capstone Turbine Corp.’s  stock declined 13 cents, or 7.9%, to $1.58. The company, which makes microturbine systems, said revenue for fiscal 2011 jumped 33% to $81.9 million from $61.6 million a year ago. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected revenue in the most recent period to have risen 38% to $85 million. The company’s quarterly net loss was $38.5 million, or 16 cents a share, narrower than its loss of $67.2 million or 34 cents a share a year earlier. Capstone’s adjusted loss was $34.8 million, or 14 cents a share. A year ago, its adjusted loss was $44.3 million or 22 cents a share. Shares of computer disk-drive maker Seagate Technology PLC  pulled back 0.5% to $15.51 in choppy trading. They finished the regular session up 3%, rising alongside shares of Western Digital Corp.  and Hutchinson Technology Inc.  during the day, after Hutchinson raised its third-quarter shipping forecast. The gains among disk-drive makers helped push the tech sector broadly higher ahead of the late-trading session. The Nasdaq Composite Index finished up 1.5% to 2,678.72, with shares of Apple Inc.  and Nokia Corp.  higher after the two companies settled litigation related to patents for wireless devices. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 123 points, or 1%, at 12,076.11, and the S&P; 500 Index  advanced 1.3% after May retail sales came in better than expected, and retailer Best Buy Co.  posted quarterly results ahead of Wall Street’s expectations. 
This is a case of receiving a lemon and figuring out how to make lemonade. The lemon in this case is low trading volume, which many consider to be bearish. A week ago, as you may recall, I subjected that notion to historical scrutiny, and found no support for such a concern. ( ) I didn’t go far enough, however, according to some of the responses that column elicited. It’s not just that low volume isn’t bearish; according to some, it is actually downright bullish. Their reasoning: The beginnings of bear markets almost always see a pickup in volume, and that’s not what we’ve seen since the market’s top in late April and early May. For this column I wanted to subject that reasoning to scrutiny. To find out if it has any historical support, I analyzed stock-exchange volume at the beginning of all bear markets since the early 1970s. I relied on the precise definition of a bear market that is employed by Ned Davis Research, the quantitative research firm, according to which there have been 10 bear markets since the mid 1970s. For each of these bear markets, I calculated a ratio of two numbers: The first is average daily NYSE trading volume over the first month of that bear market, and the second is the average over the month prior to the bear market’s beginning (that is, in the last month of the preceding bull market). Across all 10 past bear markets, this ratio’s average was precisely 2.0-to-1. That means that trading volume is twice as high in the first month of a bear market than in the last month of a bull market. Furthermore, no bear market since 1970 has deviated very much from this overall average. The minimum level for this ratio was 1.80-to-1, for example. How does this compare to what we’re experiencing today? The high for this bull market came on May 3, at least when judging it according to the Dow Jones Industrial Average  . The ratio of average daily trading volume in the month after that high, to the average in the month prior, was 1.07-to-1 — much lower than this ratio’s average and lower even than the minimum this ratio has been at the beginning of any of the last 10 bear markets. This doesn’t guarantee that a bear market hasn’t started, of course. But if one has, it would be the only one in the last four decades which began with barely any pickup in volume. 
After six down weeks and a savage slump on Tuesday, the specter of a 2008 Crash haunts Wall Street. But two certified doomsters are (slightly) more cautious. This is the problem, as summarized by the latest Aden Forecast: “Many respected analysts are warning that another financial crisis could be on the horizon similar to the one in 2008. They claim that since the 2008 meltdown was not allowed to end naturally, the conclusion is still coming. This is a real possibility since the fundamental, underlying factors that triggered the crisis to begin with still persist. Another possibility is just a renewed recession.” One service that indisputably did call the Crash of 2008 (“a financial tsunami”) was Harry Schultz’s International Harry Schultz Letter. Schultz had a long and checkered career, especially as monitored by the Hulbert Financial Digest in its closing phase. But its last years were brilliant. Greatly to the disappointment of columnists seeking colorful copy, the letter closed last winter after 45 years of publication. ( .) However, Schultz still publishes a monthly essay in the Aden Forecast. The good news: As of last week, he doesn’t seem to see another Crash…yet. Schultz has always had a scatter-shot style, combining eccentricities and insight, and this tendency seems to have become more pronounced. This is his only comment on the stock market: “Chart talk: Dow Jones Industrial Average  is in a multi-year 2000-2011 BT (broadening top). It suggests a new high, followed by a collapse. Broadening Tops are often seen in individual stock charts, rarely in a stock average. Is credible…” This fits generally with Schultz’s view of gold and the economy — which, using a favorite device, he expresses by quoting a surrogate: “The run-up to the peak in markets like gold is between now and 2015. I think it will all be over by 2015, a lot of it depends on how aggressively paper monies get printed from here on in. I think $3,000 is an absolute minimum gold target. I can believe in targets certainly above $5,000 and it’s theoretically possible to go to $12,000…If we get as high as $12,000, a lot of very bad things will have happened to our economies.” In a hopeless effort to forestall the usual abuse in the comment thread, I repeat: Schultz really did foresee the Crash of 2008 (plus, for that matter, the Great Inflation of the 1970s). And his record, according to the HFD, was latterly very strong. His new hosts at the Aden Forecast also have a strong record by HFD count. I named Aden Forecast Letter of the Year in 2010. ( .) Unlike Harry Schultz, however, Pamela and Mary Anne Aden’s world view is comprehensive, systematic and closely-reasoned. It’s ultimately just as apocalyptic, but the Adens explicitly temper it with disciplined observation of and sensitivity to short-term market trends, which they acknowledge can often be paradoxical. In the most recent Aden Forecast, they write: “What concerns us is that interest rates are now signaling a major trend reversal to the downside…If that proves to be true, it’ll be a very bearish sign for stocks. In other words, this interest rate change could well be providing an early warning that some sort of crisis, or another recession, lies ahead. If so, then stocks could be headed for a steep fall.” The Adens’ response to this is measured: “All things considered, we feel this is a time to play it safe and lighten up on your stock holdings. Since the major stock trends are still up, we recommend keeping a smaller 15% position in the strongest stocks (down from 25%), but sell the weaker ones.” The balance of the Adens’ recommended asset allocation: 40% precious metals (physical, shares and exchange-traded funds); 30% cash (Swiss francs, Canadian and U.S. dollars); 15% energy and resource stocks. 
 By , MarketWatch SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Research In Motion Ltd. turned down ahead of the company’s earnings report Thursday afternoon, leading the rest of the tech sector to slip into the red. The Nasdaq Composite Index   was off 0.6% to 2,616 by late afternoon with the Morgan Stanley High-Tech Index   off nearly 1%. The Dow  was up 25 points while the S&P; 500  was down fractionally. Research In Motion    was last down about 0.6% to $34.93. The stock has sold off hard in recent weeks, losing more than 38% since the company lowered its forecast for the first fiscal quarter on April 28. The final report is expected after the closing bell. Analysts expect a drop in net income with a 21% gain in revenue for the period, as RIM has had a hard time selling high-end versions of its BlackBerry smartphone under heavy competition from Apple  and other device makers such as Samsung, HTC and Motorola Mobility  . In the chip sector, FBR Capital Markets upgraded Advanced Micro Devices  to an outperform rating and downgraded Intel Corp.  to a market perform rating. Analyst Craig Berger cited channel checks indicating that AMD may gain market share in both desktop PCs and laptops in the second half of the year, though he noted that he still has concerns about the company’s “lack of strategy” in mobile devices and its lack of a CEO. On Intel, the analyst said he was “not negative” on the company, but said the stock “have herculean difficulties breaking out above $24” and that he wants to limit exposure to “PC chip stocks.” Intel shares were last down fractionally with AMD down 3.2% to $7.25. Optical equipment maker Finisar  slid more than 15% to $15 after the company reported fourth-quarter results and issued a disappointing forecast for the current period. The move hurt other optical players such as JDS Uniphase  and Ciena  , which were down 6.4% and 6%, respectively. Pandora Media  was last down 9.6% to $15.75 on its second day of trading following its initial public offering on Wednesday. The morning’s drop put the stock below its $16 IPO price. PC makers Hewlett-Packard  and Dell  were up late in the day, along with Cisco Systems  and Yahoo  . 
U.S. stock index futures gained Tuesday, pointing to further gains for Wall Street as worries about Greece’s debt problems faded ahead of a crucial confidence vote later in Athens. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index rose 5.5 points to 1,279.30, while Nasdaq 100 futures gained 8 points to 2,208. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 39 points to 12,052. “Market sentiment has registered a cautious improvement overnight on hopes that a solution for Greece’s debt crisis could be found,” said Jane Foley, strategist at Rabobank in London. U.S. equities gained ground Monday, rising after Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs the euro group of euro-zone finance ministers, offered reassurances that the next round of aid for Greece will be likely be disbursed provided Athens approves new austerity measures. A vote is expected near midnight Athens time, or 5 p.m. Eastern. But optimism over the Greek situation may be overdone ahead of a crucial confidence vote on Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government in parliament later Tuesday, said Heino Ruland, strategist at Ruland Research in Eppstein, Germany. Investors appear confident Papandreou will survive, but sentiment would likely take a big hit if the government runs into problems, said Ruland. He sees potential for Papandreou to run into problems given the scope of public anger over plans for additional austerity measures. Strategists at Lloyds TSB in London said the Greek government is likely to survive the vote despite ongoing protests over the terms of an additional bailout. Failure by parliament to endorse the government “would not only rile markets further, but would also complicate the upcoming timetable [for additional aid] in light of the delays involved in processing a general election,” they said, in a research note. Also Tuesday, an unexpectedly sharp decline in the ZEW indicator of German economic sentiment for June had little impact on U.S. index futures, with investors looking through the survey to the release of the Ifo Institute’s more closely-watched survey of German business sentiment on Friday, Ruland said. The ZEW sentiment indicator, based on a survey of financial professionals, fell to negative 9.0 from 3.1 in May. Economists had forecast a decline to negative 4.1. In corporate news, aircraft maker Boeing Co.  said Aeroflot Russian Airlines ordered eight 777-300ER jetliners, The order was previously attributed to an unidentified customer on Boeing’s orders and deliveries website. Earlier, Boeing said Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA ordered 15 737-800 airplanes, bringing the carrier’s total orders from Boeing to 78. Retailers will be in focus on the earnings front, with drug-store chain Walgreen Co.  posting a 30% increase in third-quarter profit as the company also announced that it wouldn’t renew a business deal with pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts Inc. , shares of which fell in the premarket. Also on tap, book seller Barns & Noble Inc.  is set to report results ahead of the opening bell. The economic calendar brings existing U.S. home sales for May at 10 a.m. Eastern. In commodities, Nymex crude-oil futures rose $1.08 to $94.34 a barrel in electronic trading. The dollar was mostly lower versus major rivals, slipping 0.1% versus the Japanese yen to trade at ¥80.15 as the euro also gained on the greenback. European stocks pushed higher in the wake of Wall Street’s solid gains Monday and an advance by Asian markets overnight as worries about Greece faded. Bourses across Asia recorded gains, with energy stocks, Japanese auto companies and Hong Kong-listed property developers making gains. Blue chips led Wall Street to a higher finish to begin the trading week, with the Dow industrials  rising 0.6% to finish at 12,080.83. The S&P; 500  closed with a 0.5% gain at 1,278.36, while the Nasdaq Composite  finished 0.5% higher at 2,629.66. 
Sales of existing U.S. single-family homes and condos fell 3.8% as activity remains muted even with a slump in prices, according to data released Tuesday. The National Association of Realtors said sales fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.81 million. Resales fell a revised 1.8% in April to 5.00 million compared with the initial estimate of a 0.8% fall to 5.05 million units. The decline was in line with forecasts. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch expected sales to fall to 4.80 million. The forecasts rely heavily on the pending home sales index, which collapsed by 12% in April. Pending sales are captured at the point of contract signing and existing home sales are measured at closing. “This was a weak report that will likely be greeted as being okay because the decline was less than many feared. Still, the housing market is going nowhere fast,” wrote Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, in a note to clients. Stocks overlooked the weak data and focused instead on Greece, where Prime Minister George Papandreou was set to face a confidence vote. The Down Jones Industrial Average  was recently up 112 points to 12, 194. Treasury prices  drifted lower as investors had hopes the vote would put an end to the Greek crisis. Lawrence Yun, the chief economist of the NAR, said he thinks that the May existing home sales could be “the low point of the year.” Yun said that pending home sales may rebound by as much as 15% next month, which would push existing home sales higher. This would translate into existing home sales rebounding 8.1% to 5.2 million units in June, estimated Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics. Housing has been a drag on the recovery and is one of the reasons that the Federal Reserve has kept short-term interest rates near zero since December 2008. Fed policymakers will begin a two-day meeting this afternoon. Economists expect the central bank to make no moves to exit its ultra-low policy stance given the recent softness in the economic data. Housing is facing a gordian knot of problems. There are a large number of foreclosures pouring on the market. At the same time, home buyers are facing tight credit conditions even though mortgage rates are at low levels. Home prices have been declining and now are at double-dip lows. Since May 2010, the median cost of a home sold has declined by 4.6%. Distressed sales represented 31% of the total in May, down from 37% in April. Resales fell 2.5% in the Northeast, fell 6.0% in the Midwest, fell 5.1% in the South and were unchanged in the West. In the Realtors report, sales of single-family homes fell 3.2% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.24 million, the lowest since November. Sales of condos fell 8.1% to an annual rate of 570,000, also the lowest since November. 
U.S. stocks finished higher Tuesday, as investors took advantage of the past month’s pullback to buy shares in cyclical stocks on growing confidence that Greece’s government will avoid a sovereign-debt default. The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 109.63 points, or 0.9%, to close at 12,190.01, with Alcoa Inc.  shares surging 4% and Caterpillar Inc.  rising with a 3.3% gain for a 5.7% gain on the week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 17.16 points, or 1.3%, to 1,295.52, for its best one-day gain since April 20, with the materials and consumer discretionary sectors leading the charge. Consumer staples was the only sector down on the day. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite rose 57.60 points, or 2.2%, to 2,687.26 for its largest one-day percent gain since Oct. 5. Investors are trading on the confidence that Greece will enact measures needed to stave off a default, according to Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector research at Charles Schwab. “It’s a short-term sigh of relief, maybe not warranted, but it’s an assurance there’s no imminent crisis,” Sorensen said. After the close of U.S. markets, Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou and his government survived a no-confidence vote as they try to shore up support for economic reforms. The vote came just days after a mass protest over new government cutbacks shook Greece’s political establishment. The euro  fell slightly following the result of the vote trading at $1.4372, compared with $1.4402 before results. Still, Greece is expected to get its next quarterly installment of bailout money as long as the country’s Parliament passes a contentious package of budget measures. European finance ministers also showed modest signs of progress toward a broader agreement for a bigger package of aid to Greece for coming years. Ken Tower, senior analyst at Quantitative Analysis Service, said Tuesday’s rally was the result of a lot of money on the sidelines and investors wanting to put it to work on what appears to be a bottoming process. “This is the beginning of the bottom,” Tower said. “The market will come up in a more sustainable rally. This is not a sustainable rally.” The analyst also attributed the rally to short covering and cautioned that there is still bad news out there that has yet to be digested by investors. On the New York Stock Exchange, nearly six stocks rose for each decliner as 851.1 million shares traded hands. On the Nasdaq, nearly four stocks rose for each decliner on volume of 518 million shares. The rally was unaffected by expected bad housing data. The National Association of Realtors said sales of existing single-family homes and condos fell 3.8% in May to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.81 million, in line with economists’ forecasts for a drop to 4.8 million. “Housing continues to be a prime problem in this country,” said Phil Dow, director of equity strategy at RBC Wealth Management. “The inventory is still high and foreclosures are high. We shouldn’t expect anything to change until we get a more stable employment situation.” Also, the Federal Reserve’s two-day policy setting meeting kicks off Tuesday, with the Fed’s policy statement and Chairman Ben Bernanke’s press conference slated for Wednesday. In corporate news, shares of Walgreen Co.   slumped 4.2% after the largest U.S. drugstore chain said negotiations to renew its contract to be part of Express Scripts Inc.   pharmacy- provider network were unsuccessful. The news came as Walgreen said its fiscal third-quarter earnings jumped 30% amid continued sales growth. Best Buy   authorized a new $5 billion stock repurchase program and raised its quarterly dividend by 7%, prompting shares to rise 2.7%. Raytheon  said it received a $1.7 billion contract to upgrade Saudi Arabia’s missile defense system. Shares rose 1.1%. Crude-oil futures for August  rose 0.6% to settle at $94.7 a barrel, while gold futures for August  rose 0.3% to settle at $1,546.40 an ounce. 
Brazilian shares finished lower Wednesday, reversing course late in the session, to track losses on Wall Street after the Federal Reserve cuts its U.S. economic forecast. Earlier, Brazilian stocks had garnered support after a report showed a slowdown in consumer price inflation in June. Brazil’s Bovespa  closed down 0.4% at 61,194.09 after trading as high as 61,858.97. Regular trading will resume Friday because of a national holiday Thursday. U.S. stocks ended lower with the Dow Jones Industrial Average losing more than 80 points, pressured in the wake of a lowered economic forecast and comments from Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on the risks to the U.S. from a European debt default. The action offset earlier support in Brazilian stocks. Brazil’s consumer price inflation preview for June rose 0.23% to mid-June from the same period a month ago, compared with a rise of 0.70% to mid-May, according to a report Tuesday from government statistics agency IBGE. “The greatest contribution to the monthly deceleration came from transportation and food groups, led by seasonality and commodities,” analysts at RBS Emerging Markets Strategy said in a note to clients. “In all, inflation is showing some relief in line with the central bank assumptions, but it will be much dependent on the evolution of commodity prices,” they said. Among individual shares, Vale , the world’s largest iron ore miner, added 0.5% while steel company Gerdau  shed 0.3% in Sao Paulo. Shares of oil company Petrobras    closed up 0.1%. Across Latin America, stock markets still ended mostly higher. Mexico’s IPC  rose 0.3% to close at 35,399.44, Chile’s IPSA  ended at 4,711.09, up 0.3% and Argentina’s Merval  was up 0.1% at 3,333.58. Peru’s LSE General  fell 0.4% to 19,149.90, Latin American stocks likely saw some support after Greece’s government survived a confidence vote, marking another step toward a resolution for Greece’s debt crisis and easing concerns, for now, over sovereign debt in the European Union. Stocks in the region had shown little reaction following the Fed’s widely expected decision to end on June 30 its easing program of buying $600 billion of Treasury securities and hold interest rates steady. 
 By , MarketWatch NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stocks snapped a four-day winning streak Wednesday, stumbling late in the session after the Federal Reserve issued a cautious economic outlook just days before it ends its asset-buying program. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 80.34 points, or 0.7%, to 12,109.67, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index   dropped 8.38 points, or 0.7%, to 1,287.17 and the Nasdaq Composite  declined 18.07 points, or 0.7%, to 2,669.19. The markets started the day in negative territory, clambering to a modest gain before falling again after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke wrapped up an afternoon news conference. “We started eroding once Bernanke finished speaking,” said Stephen Carl, head equity trader at The Williams Capital Group. “The market was waiting for Bernanke to say something different or positive and he never did. He didn’t allude to anything that will lead to an abrupt turnaround in the economy.” In its post-meeting statement, the Fed downgraded its assessment of the U.S. economy’s performance, but gave no indication it intends to take new steps to boost growth and jobs. Instead, officials said they are sticking with plans to end the purchase of $600 billion in U.S. Treasurys on June 30 and to keep short-term interest rates near zero. The Fed also said the slower pace of recovery was “likely to be temporary,” citing supply-chain disruptions caused by the Japanese earthquake earlier in the year. But in his comments, Bernanke said there was “uncertainty” over how much of the slowdown was permanent. “The only thing he made clear at the press conference that wasn’t clear previously is that he’s acknowledging the slowdown is not entirely due to temporary factors,” said Ed Keon, managing director at Quantitative Management Associates. “He made it explicitly clear that there is some concern that the weakness of the financial sector, in the housing sector and the deleveraging might still be stronger than they had thought previously.” All 10 sectors of the S&P; 500 finished lower for the day, with technology and consumer-discretionary stocks falling the sharpest. Energy and materials stocks fared relatively better on a day that saw oil prices surge 1.3% to back above $95 a barrel. Helping the bull case on Wednesday was a positive earnings report from FedEx Corp.  , which saw fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and revenue top expectations. The world’s largest air-cargo carrier also delivered a promising outlook, saying it expected a continued “moderate” pace of recovery and industrial-sector expansion, calling the recent economic softness “temporary.” The package-delivery company rallied 2.6%, while rival United Parcel Service   shares gained 0.7%. “FedEx is a company that, if things were really that tough out there, they wouldn’t be able to put up such good numbers,” said Jerome Heppelmann, portfolio manager at OMCAP Investors. “I believe we’re in a soft patch, but that’s as much hope as belief. Both sides of the argument can compile as many data points as you need.” Shares of homebuilders gained after home prices as tracked by the Federal Housing Finance Agency rose 0.8% in April from the month before, much better than expectations for a 0.3% decline. PulteGroup Inc.  , D.R. Horton , KB Home  and Lennar Corp.  climbed 0.4%, 1.4%, 1.1% and 1.5%, respectively. CarMax Inc.  shares climbed 7% to lead S&P; 500 gainers after the used-car retailer reported strong quarterly results, while Adobe Systems Inc.  shares shed 6.3% following its earnings report, released late Tuesday. That made it the biggest decliner on the S&P; 500. and In overseas trading, Asian markets finished mostly higher, with Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average surging 1.8%. In Europe, the markets were broadly lower, with the Stoxx Europe 600   finishing down 0.6%. 
Shares of Southern Union Co. rallied Thursday evening after the energy distribution company received a new buyout bid, while investors pushed shares of Oracle Corp. and Micron Technology Inc. lower following the release of quarterly financial results. Southern Union shares  climbed 15% to $39.20 after energy pipeline operator Williams Cos.   proposed to acquire Southern Union for $39 a share in cash, representing a 14% premium over the most recent closing price. The total enterprise value of the deal is $8.7 billion, said Southern Union in a statement. The bid is more than a rival offer of $33 a share from Energy Transfer Equity in June. “Our proposal provides significantly greater value to all Southern Union shareholders than they would receive from Energy Transfer and a path to realize such premium value that is more transparent, more expedient and more certain,” said Williams’s Chief Executive Alan Armstrong in a statement. Shares of Williams fell 4.4% to $27.95 in late trading. In scant volume, Energy Transfer shares were off 3.8% at $43.86. During the after-hours session, Oracle Corp. shares   fell 6.2% to $30.40. The maker of computer hardware and software used by businesses posted a quarterly profit increase that surpassed Wall Street’s estimate. However, sales of hardware declined during the quarter, and the company had previously forecast an increase of up to 12%. Oracle said net income rose to $3.2 billion, or 62 cents a share, from $2.4 billion, or 46 cents a share, in the same period last year. Excluding one-time items, earnings were 75 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected earnings excluding items of 71 cents a share on $10.8 billion in revenue. Micron Technology Inc.   shares slid 12% to $7.45 after the memory chip maker’s quarterly results fell short of expectations. Fiscal third-quarter profit was $75 million, or 7 cents a share, on revenue of $2.14 billion. During the same period a year ago, earnings were $939 million, or 92 cents a share, on $2.26 billion in sales. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had forecast earnings of 16 cents a share on revenue of $2.37 billion. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks ended mixed on reports Greek authorities have agreed to a new 5-year austerity plan to avoid a sovereign default. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished 60 points, or 0.5%, lower at 12,050.00 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   fell 0.3% to 1,283.50. The Nasdaq Composite   turned higher, ending up 0.7% at 2,686.75. 
Another down week, but now even permabears think the storm may be passing. Two weeks ago, these letters had real fear of another 2008-style Crash ( ) They’re still not happy, but they’re impressed that the world has not ended. Dow Theory Letters’ Richard Russell wrote on Friday morning: “From a Dow Theory standpoint, I thought the action of the Dow Jones Transportation Average  was significant. Not only did the Transports refuse to follow the Dow Jones Industrial Average  down, but the Transports actually rallied. …Thus, the Transports are giving the lie to the frightening performance of the Industrials.” Even after Friday’s bad break, he merely wrote: “Dow at new low for the move, unconfirmed by the Transports. … I’m keeping my eyes on those March lows. One or the other (Industrials or Transports) better hold.” Dennis Slothower of Stealth Stocks Daily was out of the market for the 2008 Crash and is 100% in cash now. But on Friday, he was relatively optimistic, by Slothower standards, if characteristically conspiratorial: “While it might be easy to fall into the trap that the next recession will soon be here, let’s not get too spooked. With prices staying above the 200-day moving averages after multiple tests by the bears, it suggests that the dealer banks may merely be letting the spooked traders give up their shares at this currently discounted level before the banks push it up one more time.” “The [200-day moving average] has to be breached if the bears are going to take control. Since that hasn’t happened yet, it suggests the fear level is being contained.” Slothower’s cynical, but short-term-bullish conclusion: “The bulls (i.e., the banks) could quite easily push during this end of June / early July window-dressing period to fake out traders and get them to jump on the train that would clearly look like it is leaving the station. After all, the banks can create another dump in July, after the July payroll report, if they choose to — where I am leaning.” One letter with a strong post-Crash record that has shown itself capable of both bullishness and bearishness is New World Investor, edited by Michael Murphy. ( ) Last week, he made a similar argument: “One reason I am still bullish is that the long-term weekly chart still looks great. … I know other newsletter writers are trying to scare you with stories about the terrible stuff that will happen when QE2 ends next week. But I think that’s been the main worry since March, and the bears have not been able to break this market below the S&P; 500 Index   1,230-1,250 area, or even the 200-day moving average, now at 1,260.” In a striking move, Murphy is getting out of gold, although he makes it clear in chart-speak that this is purely tactical: “Gold moves in daily, intermediate and four-year cycles, and follows a very clear A-up, B-down (but not below where A started), C-big up and D-sharply down wave structure. I expect two or three more of these cycles before the whole move is over in 2016-2018. It is always easier to catch the bottoms than the tops of the A- and C-waves, so I expect we’ll be back in these ETFs very near the bottom.” “For now, sell the Market Vectors ETF Trust Market Vectors Gold Miners  , Market Vectors Junior Gold Miners ETF   and the Global X Silver Miners ETF   for gains, and ProShares Ultra Silver   for a loss. You do not need to sell our individual miners, which have news coming to drive them higher.” 
Consumer spending was flat in May, government data showed Monday, as higher prices at the gas pump and a weak labor market made consumers reluctant to open their wallets. This was the weakest reading in almost a year. Consumer spending adjusted for inflation declined 0.1% for the second straight month in May, the Commerce Department said. Meanwhile, personal income rose 0.3% in May. May’s figures were mixed in terms of market expectations. Spending rose less than the 0.1% expected, while income growth matched the forecast of economists surveyed by MarketWatch. Stocks held on to modest gains after the data was released. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  was up 4 points to 11,940 in early trading. Treasury prices  fell slightly pushing yields up from near the lowest levels seen since December. Growth in both income and spending were revised lower for April. Spending was cut to an increase of 0.3% from the initial estimate of a 0.4% increase, while income was revised to 0.3% growth from the 0.4% gain previously estimated. The personal consumption expenditure index, which Federal Reserve officials say is a more accurate gauge of inflation than the better-known consumer price index, increased 0.2% on the month. On a year-over-year basis, the PCE price index is up 2.5%. The core rate of inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 0.3% in May, the largest gain since October 2009. The 12-month core rate was up 1.2%, still well below the Fed’s implicit target of just below 2%. Adjusted for inflation, after-tax incomes rose 0.1% in May. A slower pace of consumer spending is one reason that economists are cutting estimates for growth in second-quarter gross domestic product. Many see spending rising around a 1% annual rate in the first three months of the year, down from an already tepid 2.2% gain in the first quarter. Economists blamed much of the weak spending on a drop in auto sales in May. Many Japanese models were not available in the wake of the devastating earthquake that struck in early March. “We expect sales to bounce back, although early reports suggest that they are unlikely to have done so significantly in June,” said Peter Newland, an economists at Barclays Capital, in a note to clients. Real spending on durable goods — items that include autos and other big-ticket items designed to last 3 or more years — fell 1.7% after falling 0.3% in April. Spending on non-durable goods fell 0.3%, after rising 0.2% in April. Spending on services, which has been weak, rose 0.2% in May following a 0.1% decline in the previous month. The U.S. savings rate rose to 5.0% in May from 4.9% in the prior two months. Income from wages and salaries increased 0.2% in May after a 0.4% rise in April. 
Bank stocks rose Monday after global regulators said over the weekend that they intend to increase capital requirements to a lesser extent than some had feared. After months of worry, bank analysts and investors are finding an international accord directing the world’s biggest banks to hold extra capital in a manner that’s viewed as less burdensome than had been expected. The new rules are to be phased in over the next seven years. The biggest and most important banks will have to hold as much as an additional 2.5% of the most strictly defined form of capital on their balance sheets to protect them in event of another crisis, the group of central-bank heads leading the Basel discussions agreed Saturday. The extra capital buffer detailed by the committee brings some clarity to a much-discussed area of global financial reform. Several leaders and bankers have sparred over how much capital is necessary for the banks to hold to ensure a crisis like 2008 is not repeated. In the broader market, the Financial Select Sector SPDR , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500 Index , added 1.3%, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average  reclaimed the 12,000 mark. The Dow finished 109 points higher, at 12,044. Among the financial stocks in the Dow, Bank of America Corp.  was the sharpest gainer, with shares up 3.8%, followed by American Express Co. , up 2.9%. Travelers Cos. Inc.  and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  both rose around 1%. Meanwhile, Huntington Bancshares Inc.  was the second-biggest gainer after Bank of America among the S&P-listed; shares from the sector. Shares of NYSE Euronext  rose after proxy firm ISS urged shareholders to approve the firm’s merger with Deutsche Boerse AG. According to a statement from NYSE Euronext, ISS told NYSE shareholders that, “on a pro forma basis, the deal will create the world leader in derivatives, capital-raising markets and capital-markets infrastructure services. Furthermore, NYSE anticipates enhancements to its product suite given the highly complementary business resulting in significant synergies (over $500 million in cost savings and $133 million in revenue).” 
Canadian stocks closed higher Monday, supported by the financial and materials sectors, despite weak U.S. spending data as a new proposal from France helped ease concern over Greek debt. The S&P;/TSX Composite Index  rose 58 points, or 0.5, to 12,966.49. The gain breaks a three-session losing streak. The S&P; Capped Financial Index , which makes up roughly 30% of the benchmark, added 0.7%. Manulife Financial Corp.  rose 1.4% and the Bank of Nova Scotia  jumped 1.5%. The S&P;/TSX Capped Materials Index  gained on the back of the fertilizer industry. It added 0.5%. Shares of Potash Corp.  moved up 3.1% to trade at C$53.52. Competitor Agrium Inc.  rose 2.6%. The mining-heavy materials sector withstood mixed results in the gold industry as prices weakened for the precious metal. Kinross Gold Corp.  added 0.7%, while Goldcorp Inc.  shed 0.2%. Gold delivery for August  dropped 0.3% to fall below $1,500 an ounce. The S&P;/TSX Capped Energy Index rallied in the afternoon to close slightly higher; it added 0.1% despite a decline in the price of oil futures. Nexen Inc.  rose 1.9% to help push the index positive, while Talisman Energy Inc.  fell 0.5%. Oil prices  slipped 1% to trade just above $90 a barrel, a four-month low. On Monday the U.S. government released data showing consumer spending was flat in May. When adjusted for inflation, spending actually declined 0.1%, the weakest reading in almost a year. Personal income rose 0.3% in the same month. Despite the report the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 109 points, or 0.9%, to 12,043.56. Also on Monday French banks proposed a new plan to allow for slower repayments of funds lent to Greece, easing some fears of default. On Wednesday Greece Parliament will vote on new austerity measures required to receive the next tranche in its bailout package. 
U.S. stocks on Wednesday extended their winning run to a third straight day as Greece approved debt-reduction measures and Wall Street prepped for closing the books on the second quarter. “The market has been rallying, in theory at least, on Greece getting financial aid and trying to work its way out of the debt rash that they’re in,” said Paul Nolte, managing director at Dearborn Partners. But the string of gains has come without much participation behind it, added Nolte, who noted that trading volume has been low “even by recent standards.” Therefore, he attributes Wall Street’s rise as more to do with a “corrective rebound in front of a three-day weekend, along with end-of-quarter window dressing.” The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 72.73 points, or 0.6%, to 12,261.42, with 24 of its 30 components trading higher. Bank of America Corp.  led the gains. The blue-chip index is off 0.5% from the end of the first quarter, and off 2.5% for the month. A draft ruling on debit-card fees that won’t cut into bank revenues as much as feared sent shares of Visa Inc. up 15% and MasterCard Inc.   shares up 11%. Shares of the nation’s largest bank climbed 2.6% after it agreed to pay $8.5 billion to settle disputes over mortgages gone bad and held in securities purchased by BlackRock Inc.  and other investors. Off 2.8% for June and 1.4% for the second quarter, the S&P; 500 Index  climbed 10.74 points, or 0.8%, to 1,307.41, with financials and natural-resource companies faring the best among its 10 industry groups. Technology companies lagged. The Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 3.44 points, or 0.4%, to 2,740.49, readying it for a 1.5% quarterly decline and a drop of 3.3% for June. For every share that fell, more than two gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where nearly 913 million shares traded. In Washington, President Barack Obama held a news conference to talk about ongoing negotiations to reduce the nation’s deficit. The comments followed an International Monetary Fund warning that a failure by U.S. lawmakers to reach an agreement on raising the U.S. borrowing limit soon could hit the still-fragile global economy with a “severe shock.” U.S. stocks wobbled then recovered after an industry group reported home sales rebounded 8.2% in May from the previous month. “While a positive data point relative to expectations, the index is still at the second-lowest level since last November, and we need to see how many of these contracts turn into closings as bank-mortgage approval has become a much tougher process,” said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. 
U.S. stocks on Thursday kept Wall Street’s end-of-quarter winning run alive, lifting the Dow Jones Industrial Average to a fourth consecutive quarterly rise, after a measure of manufacturing in the Midwest offered hope for a national gauge to be released Friday. “Give the market a much better-than-expected data point, and it’s a one-way ticket up,” said Elliot Spar, market strategist at Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. Tallying a fourth straight days of gains, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 152.92 points, or 1.3%, to 12,414.34. Twenty-six of the Dow’s 30 components tallied gains, with American Express Co.   up the most during the second quarter, rising nearly 13% for the three-month period. Advancing 0.8% on the quarter, the blue-chip benchmark fell 1.2% for the month, leaving it 7.2% up on the year. “With the soft patch of weaker U.S. economic growth, increased risks in Europe, negative aftermath of the Japan earthquake and conclusion of the Federal Reserve’s quantitative-easing II bond-buying program, volatility in the equity and fixed-income markets will be elevated in the near term,” according to Bob Doll, chief equity strategist at BlackRock Investment. But as the coming quarter progresses, market risks should recede, letting investors consider a shift back toward risk assets, he said. The S&P; 500 Index  rose 13.23 points, or 1%, to 1,320.64, leaving it down 1.8% for the month and off 0.4% for the just-ended quarter. Defensive stocks fared best among the S&P;’s 10 industry groups during the three-month period, with health-care the best-performing sector, followed by utilities and consumer staples. Conversely, financial firms were hardest hit, followed by energy and technology. Among the top gainers on the S&P; 500 Thursday, NetApp Inc.  shares rose 5.6% after the provider of storage-networking equipment forecast 2012 revenue above analysts’ expectations. First Solar Inc.  was also among the top risers on the S&P; 500 after the Energy Department granted the solar-panel manufacturer conditional loan guarantees worth $4.5 billion. The Nasdaq Composite Index  climbed 33.03 points, or 1.2%, to 2,773.52, down 0.3% for the quarter and off 2.2% since June began. For every four stocks on the decline, 11 gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 996 million shares traded. Composite volume neared 3.9 billion. Oil futures   gained 65 cents to $95.42 a barrel on the New York Stock Exchange, with crude off 11% for the quarter. Gold futures  , which closed at $1,502.80 an ounce on Thursday, rose 4.4% during the three-month period. and Treasurys rallied for the quarter, sending yields on the 10-year note  down 31 basis points, to 3.16% from 3.47% at the end of March. The S&P; 500 had risen more than 3% through Wednesday as the Greek parliament approved austerity measures to avoid default. Lawmakers in Athens on Thursday approved implementation of the plan insisted upon by European officials. The ISM Chicago gauge tallied a June rebound to 61.1 from 56.6 in May, bolstered by a rise in new orders and lifting the Dow into positive territory for the second quarter of 2011. . The regional manufacturing survey comes one day ahead of the national ISM, which should pan out as “the most important data point of the week, as we shift our focus back to the economy after all the Greek drama this week,” wrote Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak in an email. The Labor Department reported jobless claims fell by 1,000 last week to 428,000, its 12th straight week above 400,000. “Today’s jobless-claims number would have had to surprise on the high side to invite sellers back into the market. Fortunately for the bulls, the calendar fits into their plan to encourage risk,” said Todd Schoenberger, managing director at LandColt Trading LLC, of end-of-quarter portfolio shuffling by fund managers. 
Forget all those mid-year scorecards that tell us how stocks have done over the last six months. The far more important investment scorecard shows where we are today relative to the Oct. 9, 2007, stock market high. The picture painted by the major stock market averages, of course, is rather grim. As of Thursday’s close, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  is around 12% below its all-time high of 14,165, and the S&P; 500 index   is nearly 16% below its October 2007 high of 1,565. A far different picture emerges when we focus on other parts of the stock market, however. It turns out, in fact, that the majority of individual stocks are now above where they were in October 2007. The same goes for the investment advisors tracked by the Hulbert Financial Digest (HFD), and is close to being true for domestic-equity mutual funds. In other words, if we’re not there already, we’re quickly approaching the time when investors will be in the minority if they are below water relative to their October 2007 levels. Why do the major benchmarks paint such an incomplete (if not outright distorting) picture? Because they represent the largest cap stocks, and that sector has been one of the poorest performers over the last several years. Consider the performance of the various benchmarks calculated by Wilshire Associates, the index provider. From Oct. 9, 2007, the date of the stock market’s all-time high, through this past Wednesday, the Wilshire U.S. Large-Cap Index lost more than 8%. In contrast, Wilshire’s U.S. Mid-Cap Index is more than 11% higher, and the U.S. Small-Cap Index is more than 10% higher. This bifurcated market is perhaps even better illustrated by focusing on two other Wilshire indices. Consider first the Wilshire 5000 index, which represents the combined value of all publicly traded stocks in the U.S. It is nearly 7% below its October 2007 high, after taking dividends into account. However, if you take away the 500 largest stocks, which is what the Wilshire 4500 index represents, it would be 6.1% higher. The relatively strong showing of non-large-cap stocks is one of the contributing factors for why a majority of investment newsletter portfolios are ahead of where they stood 3-1/2 years ago. Newsletter editors, more than most other members of the investment advisory industry, tend to focus on smaller-cap issues. The HFD has performance data back to October 2007 for 402 investment newsletter model portfolios. Of them, 225 — or 56% — were worth more at the end of May than they were at the market’s all-time high. The percentage of domestic-equity mutual funds that are above water, while also large, is not as high as it is for investment newsletters. But that’s understandable, since most mutual funds (because of liquidity concerns) tend to avoid the smallest-cap issues. According to a report produced earlier this week by Lipper (a Thomson Reuters company), 45% of the domestic-equity funds for which they have data back to October 2007 were, as of the end of May, ahead of where they were on the date of the stock market’s all-time high. One important lesson to draw from all this: Bear markets are not monolithic affairs — even ones as severe as the one that lasted from October 2007 to March 2009. Keep that in mind the next time we do slip into another bear market, so that you won’t let generalized bear market fear cause you to not even try finding those particular areas of the market that might buck the overall trend. 
U.S. stock futures edged mostly higher Tuesday after the Fourth of July holiday weekend and on the heels of last week’s strong gains, as investors awaited factory-orders data. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 4 points to 12,518 and those on the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index  were off 2.20 points to 1,32.6. Nasdaq 100 futures  added 3.5 points to 2,358.75. The blue-chip Dow industrials  rallied 5.4% last week, posting the biggest percentage gain since the week ended July 17, 2009. The benchmark rose 1.4% on Friday, propelled higher by stronger-than-expected manufacturing data, which eased some worries about the state of the U.S. economic recovery. Tuesday’s economic calendar is relatively thin, with data on May factory orders due at 10 a.m. Eastern time. In corporate news, Energy Transfer Equity LP  said it will acquire natural-gas firm Southern Union Co.  for $8.9 billion, including $5.1 billion in cash and Energy Transfer common units, in an amended deal. Energy Transfer had said on June 16 it will buy Southern Union for around $4.2 billion plus debt. Tuesday’s deal tops a rival offer from Williams Cos. , which offered on June 23 to buy Southern Union in a deal valued at $8.7 billion. European equity markets were slightly higher in afternoon trading, while Asian markets had traded mixed overnight. Stocks in Sydney dropped 0.3% after the Reserve Bank of Australia maintained its benchmark interest rate at 4.75% and said economic growth this year won’t be as strong as previously expected. In Sweden, the central bank raised the repo rate by 0.25 of a percentage point to 2% and said the Swedish economy is growing at a good rate. In the currency markets, the euro dropped to $1.4486, as the Greek debt crisis remained in the spotlight. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said Monday that a French-led proposal to roll over Greek government debt would likely put Greece in “selective default.” The Financial Times reported late Monday that the European Central Bank was prepared to keep accepting Greek debt as collateral for all loans unless all major ratings agencies declare the nation in default. The dollar index , which tracks the performance of the greenback against a basket of other major currencies, gained to 74.418. “Another factor that has triggered some buying support for the dollar against the euro and other majors is a rumor that China might be considering another rate hike this weekend in response to continuing concerns about accelerating inflation,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro, in a note. After a quarterly meeting of its monetary policy committee, the People’s Bank of China said in a Monday statement that inflation pressures remain high, which in turn triggered market speculation that a rate hike is imminent. In the commodity markets, crude oil for August delivery gained $1.42 to $96.36 a barrel in electronic trading on Globex. Gold futures for August delivery rose nearly 2%, adding $27.50 to $1,510.10 an ounce. 
U.S. stock futures pushed higher on Thursday after a stronger-than-expected employment report from Automatic Data Processing, and a move by the European Central Bank to suspend Portugal’s credit ceiling. Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 76 points to 12,645, while those for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  gained 11.3 points to 1,347.10. Futures for the Nasdaq 100  rose 18 points to 2,393.25. Futures jumped after ADP ‘s employment report for June showed a 157,000 gain for payrolls, while May‘s rise was revised down to 32,000 from 38,000. A consensus forecast of economists surveyed by FactSet Research expect the data from a sampling of ADP-processed payrolls to show an increase of 78,000, against last month’s reading of 38,000. Shortly afterwards, Labor Department data showed new applications for U.S. jobless benefits fell by 14,000 to a seasonally adjusted 418,000 in the week ended July 2. Claims for the prior week were revised up to 432,000 from a prior reading of 428,000. Futures were little changed after the European Central Bank hiked interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, to 1.5%. A press conference by central bank chief Jean-Claude Trichet begins at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. The Bank of England left its key lending rate unchanged at 0.5%, as expected. Later, the central bank said it would suspend the minimum credit threshold for Portugal, whose credit rating was dropped to junk status earlier this week by Moody’s Investors Service. In foreign exchange, the dollar index , which measures the performance of the greenback against a basket of six other major currencies, rose 0.3% to 75.336. The euro   dropped 0.4% to $1.4269. Wall Street closed higher in the prior session, setting the tone for upbeat market action in Asia and Europe on Thursday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 56.15 points, or 0.5%, at 12,626.02 on Wednesday, as investors shrugged off weak U.S. services-sector data, another interest-rate hike in China and a four-notch downgrade to junk status for Portugal’s credit rating. Employment data will be one focus for markets Thursday, with the ADP payrolls report for June due at 8:15 a.m. Eastern, followed by weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. Those numbers will come ahead of Friday’s U.S. nonfarm-payrolls data. “It’s all going to be news-driven today,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. “If the ADP numbers do not disappoint and stay within market expectations, I believe the upward momentum will continue as the market awaits the government’s employment data tomorrow.” A consensus forecast of economists surveyed by FactSet Research expect the data from a sampling of ADP-processed payrolls to show an increase of 78,000, against last month’s reading of 38,000. Cardillo said the market’s also building on some “momentum going into the earnings season,” which begins next week. He expects the current market rally will continue during the summer months, with “minor pullbacks,” and the S&P; will reach the 1,385 to 1,400 range. 
U.S. stock futures slumped Monday, pressured by growing fears about the potential spread of the euro-zone debt crisis to nations such as Italy and Spain. Chinese inflation data and a much weaker-than-expected U.S. jobs report further undermined investors’ appetite for assets perceived as risky such as stocks and commodities. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 131 points to 12,484 and those of the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index  fell 18.80 points to 1,322.90. Nasdaq 100 futures  declined 30.25 points to 2,378.20. The negative sentiment “has to do with concerns over the euro zone still,“ said Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin in London. “This idea of a default is now something that is admissible as part of a bailout or at least that is what the discussion seems to be about.“ The Financial Times, citing unnamed sources, reported late Sunday that European leaders have changed their position and are now willing to accept some form of Greek debt default as part of a new bailout for the debt-strapped nation. Meanwhile, leading European Union officials — including European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker — are meeting on Monday to discuss the debt crisis ahead of a regularly scheduled euro-group gathering in Brussels. The meetings come as peripheral European bond yields rose sharply on fears the crisis may spread to other nations with high debt levels such as Italy and Spain. Worries about the euro zone led traders to seek the perceived safety of the U.S. dollar, with the dollar index  , which tracks the greenback’s performance against a basket of other major currencies, rising 1.2% to 75.965. The euro sank 1.3% to $1.4030. European equity markets also came under selling pressure, with the Stoxx 600 index  down 1.3%. Losses in the periphery were sharper, with Italy’s FTSE MIB index and Portugal’s PSI 20 both down 3.3%. The blue-chip Dow index  dropped 0.5% on Friday after a disappointing data on nonfarm payrolls. No major U.S. economic data is scheduled for release Monday. Dow component Alcoa Inc.  will kick off the U.S. second-quarter earnings reporting season after the closing bell Monday. Analysts polled by FactSet Research expect the aluminum group to report second-quarter earnings of 34 cents a share and revenue of $6.28 billion. In deal news, Lonza Group Ltd.  said Monday it has agreed to acquire Arch Chemicals Inc.  for $47.20 per share in cash, putting the enterprise value of the deal at $1.4 billion. Shares of Arch Chemicals rallied 11% to $46.86 in premarket trading. In the energy sector, Peabody Energy Corp.  and ArcelorMittal    said Monday they have jointly submitted a A$4.7 billion (around $5 billion) indicative bid for Australia’s Macarthur Coal Ltd. . The deal is conditional on the successful completion of due diligence. In Asia, most markets finished lower, with Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  down 0.7%. Traders also digested weekend data showing that China’s consumer prices rose 6.4% in June amid a surge in food prices. Many economics expected a rise of between 6.2% and 6.4%. 
U.S. crude futures settled higher Tuesday, snapping a two-day losing streak as the dollar came off its highs and the lower prices enticed buyers back to the market. Crude for August delivery  added $2.28, or 2.4%, to $97.43 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It had traded as low as $93.55 a barrel earlier. Oil lost 1.1% the previous session and had closed lower on Friday as well. Dogging oil and other commodities were worries of contagion in Europe. But oil found support around its lowest for the day and did a technical bounce, said Tom Bentz, a director with BNP Paribas in New York. Helping it along, the euro came off its lows and equities found some direction after the release of the Federal Reserve’s last meeting. Some committee members expressed mixed opinions about the next steps to take to continue to jump-start the economy. The Fed, they said, may have to turn to additional stimulus if the unemployment rate didn’t drop by much and inflation returned to relatively low levels. The talk of a potential “QE3” after the end of the second round of asset purchasing briefly helped equities; the Dow Jones Industrial Average  was off slightly heading into the close. The early part of the day was dominated by a rising dollar on fears of a spillover in the euro zone. “Fears seem to have gained substantial momentum that the current monetary crisis in Greece could spread to other EU-member countries, most specifically Italy, which currently holds the highest sovereign-debt ratio relative to its (gross domestic product) in the euro zone after Greece,” analysts at JBC wrote in a note to clients. Such concerns had pressured the euro. The dollar index, which compares the U.S. unit against six currencies, lately traded lower, at 75.810 from 75.941 late Monday. “We think the current euro-zone policy framework, which relies on country-specific bailouts, is not workable for Italy, given its size,” Nomura Securities wrote in a currency strategy note. A higher greenback often weighs on commodities priced in dollars, such as oil, and vice-versa. Earlier Tuesday, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said production from its member countries increased to 29.6 million barrels a day in June, 500,000 barrels a day more than in May. Saudi Arabia and others in the Gulf region raised their output, OPEC said in its monthly outlook. The cartel reiterated its view that there will be an upswing in seasonal demand later this summer. The U.S. Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration, on its own monthly short-term outlook, revised lower its global demand expectations for this year. It also forecast Nymex oil prices to average $98.43 a barrel in 2011, off $3.48 from the previous month’s estimate. Meanwhile, other energy products tracked oil to settle higher. Natural-gas for August delivery rose 5 cents, or 1%, to $4.33 per million British thermal units. August gasoline  rose 3 cents, or 0.9%, to $3.10 a gallon. August heating oil  ended flat at $3.09 a gallon. 
Treasurys reversed losses Wednesday, pushing down yields, after a strong 10-year notes auction cemented a solid demand for U.S. debt and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke reiterated that further economic stimulus is still on the table. The Treasury Department sold $21 billion in debt at a yield of 2.918%, the lowest yield since November. Yields on 10-year notes , which move inversely to prices, were down 1 basis point to 2.87%, compared with a 6 basis points gain earlier in the session. Yields on 30-year bonds fell 1 basis point to 4.2%, down 6 basis points from before the auction. Yields on 2-year notes  rose 2 basis points to 0.36%. A basis point is 1/100 of a percentage point. “After a weak overnight session that was characterized by selling and profit-taking, Treasurys had a strong session Wednesday helped by Bernanke and a strong auction,“ said Ian Lyngen, bond strategist at CRT Capital Group. For the auction, indirect bidders, a group that includes foreign central banks, bought 42% of the 10-year notes, versus 52.4% in recent sales. Analysts regard those statistics as a snapshot of foreign investors’ appetite for U.S. debt. “It is still a strong auction and the lower indirect bid only matters if it‘s repeated over time,“ said Richard Gilhooly, interest rate strategist at TD Securities. “That could mean that foreign investors with real money are pulling back and yields would have to go up.” Direct bidders, which includes domestic money managers, purchased another 13.9% compared to an average of 7.3%. Bidders in total offered to pay 3.17 times the amount of debt sold, slightly higher than the average of the eight most recent auctions of 3.12. The Treasury Department will sell $13 billion in 30-year bonds Thursday, but the auction will show less demand than at the sales of 10-year and 3-year notes, Lyngen said. “When we have strong receptions on 3-year and 10-year notes, historically 30-year bonds will have a softer reception three out of four times,” he said. Also on Wednesday Bernanke said in remarks prepared for the House Financial Services Committee that the economy will recover in the coming quarters, but discussed stimulus approaches should the soft patch become permanent. Options included another round of asset purchases, and Treasurys were supported by “the idea that we’re close to some sort of additional monetary policy, instead of just keeping interest rates low,” Lyngen said. Treasurys fell Wednesday morning as Chinese government data showed that China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.5% in the second quarter from a year earlier, dispelling fears of a slowdown that had in turn impacted world economic growth. Treasurys are often sought as a safe haven against economic downturns and uncertainty, but as investors take on more risk in assets such as equities, prices drop. U.S. stock indexes pared Wednesday’s gains and the S&P; 500 Index  was up 0.3%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 0.3% and the Nasdaq Composite rose 0.2% 
U.S. stocks quit a recent loss streak to close higher Wednesday, helped by expectations the Federal Reserve could again step in to support the economy. The major indexes started the day with gains after China reported a slight scaling back in economic growth, and rallied after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank would consider additional stimulus. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  at one point was up by triple digits, only to shed most of that advance by the close. The Dow industrials closed up 44.73 points, or 0.4%, at 12,491.61, for their first positive day in four sessions, coming off gains of more than 160 points. Caterpillar Inc. , Merck & Co.  and Walt Disney Co.  led gains on the Dow with 22 out of 30 components closing higher. Investors have plenty of reasons to trade more cautiously. They’re still digesting a big rally when stocks surged during the last trading days of June, according to Ken Tower, senior analyst at Quantitative Analysis Service Inc. in Jersey City, N.J. “We’re not quite out of the woods yet on the economic slowdown,” he said. For instance, Treasurys — often bought as a hedge against a weak economy — lately tipped higher, depressing yields on the 10-year note  to below 2.9%. “That’s just a sign we haven’t completed the process of investors changing their focus from growth slowdown to growth acceleration,” Tower added. About 30 minutes after the opening bell, stocks had surged after Bernanke released prepared remarks to Congress, saying the Fed was contemplating some “untested steps” to further stimulate the U.S. economy if conditions deteriorate, even though the central bank believes temporary shocks holding down economic activity will pass. Such steps may include another round of asset purchases. At the end of June, the Fed ended its second round of bond buying, known as “Quantitative Easing II.” Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector research at Charles Schwab, said Bernanke’s comments, coupled with no negative news out of Europe during the day, drove stocks higher. “He’s reiterating that further stimulus is not off the table and that they’re going to see how the economy develops,” Sorensen said. But he added: “I think people read a little too much into this.” The S&P; 500 Index  added 4.08 points, or 0.3%, to close at 1,317.72, with energy and materials stocks leading gains. Traditional defensive sectors — telecoms and utilities — turned lower. The Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 15.01 points, or 0.5%, to close at 2,796.92, after touching an intraday high of 2,825.86. Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners, said Bernanke’s comments were providing a backstop to stocks, but not really adding to Tuesday’s Federal Open Market Committee minutes. “I don’t think Bernanke said anything in addition to what the market took from yesterday’s minutes,” Pavlik commented. “If you’re a trader out there, you trade on the assumption that QE3 is down the road, but if you’re an investor you don’t pay attention to this information.” On Tuesday, stocks rose to their highest levels of the day following the FOMC minutes, only to tank just before the market’s close with Moody’s downgrade of Ireland’s debt. Extraordinary efforts by the Fed and other central banks to pump more cash into the global economy have propelled stocks, commodities and related assets for the past two years, while raising fears of long-run inflation and currency devaluation. Gold futures  settled at a record high of $1,585.50 an ounce with a gain of $23.50, or 1.5%, on the day. On the New York Stock Exchange, advancers outnumbered gainers two to one on relatively light trading with 883.5 million shares trading hands on the session. Stocks had started moderately higher, extending gains in parts of Europe and Asia. Worries about a deepening Europe debt crisis hit a pause, and China reported its economy expanded 9.5% in the second quarter from a year earlier — slower than the 9.7% increase in the quarter ended March 31, but edging past forecasts of 9.4%. “It looks like China was able to accomplish a soft landing,” Pavlik said. “There was a little bit of concern about them raising interest rates, but so far they are slowing down without collapsing and the market is taking that into consideration.” 
U.S. stocks rose Friday, moderating weekly losses, as earnings from Citigroup Inc. and Google Inc. offset worries about the U.S. borrowing limit and a sharp drop in consumer confidence. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 42.61 points, or 0.3%, at 12,479.73, for a loss on the week of 1.4%. “People are reacting to corporate earnings today,” said Rob McIver, a co-portfolio manager at Jensen Portfolio. On Friday, 15 out of 30 Dow components closed higher, led by Caterpillar Inc. , Chevron Corp.   and Microsoft Corp. . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 7.27 points, or 0.6%, to close at 1,316.14 — with energy up the most and health care hammered hardest among its 10 industry groups — but even that was not enough to save the index from a 2.1% loss on the week. Leading S&P; 500 advancers, Google   shares rallied 13% after the search-engine operator blew past analysts’ forecasts, in part thanks to strong demand for its online advertising. Citigroup   tallied higher net income, highlighted by an improvement in credit quality, though its stock slipped 1.6%. The Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 27.13 points, or 1%, to close at 2,789.80, to give the technology-laden index a weekly drop of 2.5%. For every two stocks that fell, about three gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.07 billion shares traded by the close. The political events in play had President Barack Obama addressing a Friday news conference in Washington, where he warned that failure to raise the U.S. debt limit would set off a default on U.S. obligations that could drive up interest rates for all Americans, which he said would be “effectively a tax increase for everybody.” Prospects that U.S. lawmakers would fail to reach an agreement on borrowing limits and spending cuts proved a sideshow for stocks. “If the resolution wasn’t priced in, the market would be substantially lower than where it is,” said McIver at Jensen Portfolio. Lawmakers face an Aug. 2 deadline to reach a deal to raise the debt ceiling, with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner reiterating on Thursday that the nation’s borrowing authority would run out should Congress fail to act. Beyond the stalled U.S. budget talks, the sovereign-debt crisis overseas was also on investors’ minds, as eight banks failed Europe’s second round of stress tests with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros, or $3.5 billion. Also limiting the day’s gains, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey showed consumer sentiment unraveling last month to its lowest reading since March 2009. The preliminary reading of the index fell to 63.8 from 71.5 the prior month. Support came from corporate headlines. BHP Billiton Ltd.’s   $12 billion bid for Petrohawk Energy Corp.   helped drive several energy stocks higher, while activist investor Carl Icahn’s offer to acquire Clorox Co.   for $10.2 billion pushed shares of the household-products supplier nearly 9% higher. 
United Technologies Corp. probably benefited from a recent drop in copper prices, giving a boost to its second-quarter earnings. The Hartford, Conn., supplier of air conditioners, elevators and aircraft parts on Wednesday is expected to report profit of $1.41 a share, according to FactSet Research, up from $1.20 a share in the year-earlier period. United Technologies shares  are up about 13% year to date on strengthening demand for aircraft maintenance and upgrades. But it will be the drop in the price of copper, used extensively in its Carrier heating, ventilation and air conditioning unit, that could help the stock rally further. “Aero will drive earnings growth, the Street expects that, while Otis [elevators] is weak because of the downturn in commercial construction,” said Ajay Kejriwal, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets. “But Carrier can move the needle; it’s the wild card.” The full-year consensus on Wall Street is profit of $5.43 a share, above the company-guidance range of $5.25 to $5.40 a share. So the results will have to be strong if they’re going to affect the share price. “We’re expecting them to beat expectations, but the stock has had a nice run, so there needs to be a beat and a meaningful boost to guidance,” said Kejriwal. Kejriwal has a market-perform rating and $90 price target on United Technologies . At last check, UTC shares were up nearly 2% to $89.23. In the past year, the stock is up 34%, versus a 24% climb in the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . UTC is a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average , and is one of the more widely held stocks among investors. 
Intel Corp. and eBay Inc. each posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings Wednesday, but late-traded shares in the chip maker and the online auctioneer succumbed to selling pressure. Meanwhile, shares of Seagate Technology Inc. and Genworth Financial Inc. were each pummeled after the companies issued soft quarterly forecasts. Intel’s stock gave up earlier gains to trade 1.8% lower at $22.55 as investors appeared concerned about Intel‘s plans to increase spending from previous forecasts. The company said second-quarter adjusted income was 59 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected Intel to earn 51 cents a share. Revenue was $13 billion, up from $10.8 billion in the year-ago period, and Wall Street expected $12.8 billion in sales. Profit at Intel was $2.95 billion, or 54 cents a share, compared with $2.89 billion, or 51 cents a share, for the year-earlier period. Shares of eBay  were off 2% at $32.50, also giving up earlier gains that followed the company’s report of second-quarter adjusted earnings of 48 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected earnings excluding items of 46 cents a share. Revenue for the period rose 25% to $2.76 billion, above the $2.61 billion anticipated by Wall Street. Net income at eBay fell to $283 million, or 22 cents a share, from $412 million, or 31 cents a share, in the same period last year. Investors pulled shares of Seagate  down 12% to $14.89 as the disk-drive maker forecast adjusted fiscal first-quarter earnings of 29 cents to 33 cents a share on revenue of $2.9 billion. Wall Street currently expects 43 cents a share and sales of $2.85 billion. For the fiscal fourth quarter, Seagate made $119 million, or 27 cents a share, on revenue of $2.9 billion. In the year-ago quarter, Seagate earned $379 million, or 76 cents a share, on $2.67 billion in sales. Excluding one-time items, Seagate would have earned 28 cents a share. Analysts had expected earnings of 23 cents a share on $2.7 billion in revenue. Genworth shares   stumbled 8.9% to $8.63. The insurer forecast a second-quarter operating loss of 14 cents to 18 cents a share, and a net loss of 19 cents to 23 cents a share, as its adds $300 million to its mortgage-related reserves. Wall Street currently expects earnings of 24 cents a share for the second quarter. Genworth said the addition to its reserves comes as trends in its mortgage insurance business have worsened and on continuing weakness in the residential real-estate market. Genworth also said it’s providing capital support to its mortgage insurance unit through a noncash intercompany transaction. U.S. stocks closed slightly lower after a seesaw session of trading as unresolved debt issues in Washington and abroad lingered. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 16 points, or 0.1%, at 12,571.91, a day after logging its best point and percentage gains since December. The S&P; 500 Index  lost 0.1% at 1,325.84 and the Nasdaq Composite Index  shed 0.2% at 2,821. 
Shares are believed to be in a normal reaction within the confines of an intermediate-term uptrend. Uncertainty reigns as many large investors sit on their hands pending the resolution of the U.S. budget imbroglio, and to a lesser extent the euro-debt dilemma. A normal reaction consists of a retracement of between one-third and two-thirds of the prior advance. Of the three major indexes, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has retraced 64%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average 53%, and the Nasdaq Composite  49%. If price is acting normally, volume stands out as the major concern technically. As the chart below shows, the Nasdaq has only recorded one major accumulation day since the mid-June low. A major accumulation day occurs when price rises at least 0.3% on volume that is both above average and at least 3% more than that of the prior day. This is an objective measure of institutional demand for stock. The Nasdaq is being examined here as it contains more of the market’s dynamic growth stocks than other indices. In addition, it has been the relative strength leader among major averages since the mid-June market lows. In their 1948 book, “Technical Analysis of Stock Trends,” regarded by many as the bible on the subject, Edwards and Magee note that “It takes buying to put stocks up, but they can fall of their own weight.” Along these lines, it is not fatal for a market advance to show lackluster demand during the first several weeks. By the eighth week, the picture grows more worrisome. Indeed, in October 2007, after eight weeks of an S&P; 500 advance that exhibited glaringly weak volume, the weakest of any advance in years, this participant grew nervous. Either the volume was going to show up soon or there was going to be a decline. There was no crystal ball that said the market had to top right then. But it did, ending a five-year bull. The view here is that successful intermediate-term speculation need not rely on anything more complicated than an understanding of the price/volume behavior of the averages and the action of the market’s leading stocks. All that is necessary is to understand what has already happened — not what is expected to happen. It is preferable to know with 100% certainty what has happened than know with a high degree of uncertainty what could happen. Or as Winston Churchill reportedly said,“The farther backward you look, the farther forward you can see.” Currently, one can rationalize as to why volume is slack: Uncertainty in the face of the fiscal crises both stateside and in the Eurozone, and the seasonal summer slowdown. As for the latter, this generally is not a factor until the back half of August, not in mid-July. Regardless of the fundamental cause, it is to be noted that institutional demand, a bull market’s most important driver, is slack. With some exceptions, the volume shown in the current cycle’s leading stocks, as in the averages, leaves something to be desired. One exception is Apple , shown below. 
The White House and House Speaker John Boehner were reported to be close on Thursday to reaching a deal on raising the debt ceiling and cutting spending, though both sides rebutted reports and said there was no agreement. Their rebuttals came after the New York Times reported that President Barack Obama and Boehner were starting to close in on a major budget deal. The Wall Street Journal also reported that the White House told Democratic leaders in Congress that Obama and Boehner were getting closer to a major deal to reduce the deficit that would include spending cuts upfront but leave a revamp of the tax code for later. Boehner wrote in Twitter message that the Times report was “false.” White House press secretary Jay Carney told reporters that the report is “incorrect” and said that the situation is “fluid.” Some observers saw signs of movement, despite the denials. “The existence of very similar stories from two major media outlets suggests that something is up,” wrote Stephen Stanley, chief economist of Pierpont Securities. The Journal reported that the package under discussion would include about $3 trillion in spending cuts over 10 years, and a tax overhaul by the end of 2012. It would raise roughly $1 trillion in additional revenue over a decade, the Journal reported, citing people familiar with discussions. That would set the deal apart from a proposal from the Senate’s so-called “Gang of Six” to cut about $3.7 trillion from deficits in a decade. The six senators’ proposal would lower overall tax rates but would also reduce mortgage deductions and other tax breaks. Republican Sen. Saxby Chambliss, a member of the Gang of Six, says the plan would result in a $1.5 trillion tax cut. But critics including Keith Hennessey, a former aide to President George W. Bush, say it actually would raise taxes by $2.3 trillion over the next decade, relative to current policy. In public, the White House and House Republicans are both sticking to their respective scripts as negotiations continue behind the scenes. Boehner is urging the Senate to pass a bill cleared by the House earlier this week that would raise the borrowing limit and would reduce spending, as well as require both chambers of Congress to pass a balanced-budget amendment. But the Senate is expected to reject that bill on Friday. Obama has said he’d veto that bill if it gets to his desk. White House spokesman Carney, meanwhile, said Obama is insisting on a major deal. “Obviously the president is in discussions with all the leaders of Congress, as well as other members, and exploring the possibility of getting the biggest deal possible, which is the position he has held for a long time now,” Carney told reporters. According to the New York Times report, a deal would involve substantial spending cuts and seek future revenues through a tax overhaul. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  had gained as much as 179 points during the session. Even after the denials about an imminent deal, the blue-chip index was still up 157 points, with upbeat earnings news and euro-zone debt talks also contributing to gains. The Dow closed 153 points, or 1.21%, higher. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes  , however, moved higher as traders digested headlines from Washington. Yields on 10-year notes, which move inversely to prices, rose to 3.01% — the biggest increase since June 28. Pierpont Securities’ Stanley noted that the negotiations may be “torpedoed” before or after the main players reach a tentative agreement. “Indeed, the motivation of the leaks may well have been to smoke out the deal and give its detractors sufficient time to marshal opposition,” he said. 
Shares of E-Trade Financial Corp. climbed Friday evening after the company said it rejected Citadel LLC’s call for a special meeting to address several proposals. E-Trade shares  were up 4.2% from the regular session’s closing level of $15.64. The stock has posted gains over the past four sessions in a row and closed Friday with a weekly gain of 21%. After the regular trading session closed Friday, E-Trade said it rejected Citadel’s request because a special meeting was not in the best interest of its shareholders. Citadel had requested the meeting to address certain proposals, including appointing a committee to hire an advisor to review a possible sale of the financial services company. Shares of Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  climbed 0.5% in after-hours trading. The stock had closed 19% higher after the chip maker’s in-line results pointed to market share gains against rival Intel Corp.  . Reynolds American Inc.  was among the decliners Friday evening, with shares trading 1% lower on low volume. The nation’s second-largest tobacco company, reported Friday that second-quarter earnings slipped 11% as the company booked a litigation charge and saw costs rise. Caterpillar Inc.  shares, which was the biggest decliner on the Dow Jones Industrial Average , was up 0.1% in after-hours trading. McDonald’s Corp.  , the benchmark’s biggest gainer Friday, traded 0.4% higher after hours. Ahead of the evening-trading session, U.S. stocks finished mixed for the session, but gained for the week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 43 points to 12,681, up 1.6% for the week. The S&P; 500 Index  ended 1.2 points higher at 1,345 and the Nasdaq Composite Index  added 24 points to 2,859. Gold futures  turned lower during the electronic trading session, to lose $1.90. Prices had gained more than $14 Friday to close above $1,600 an ounce in regular trading on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Investors are likely to focus on earnings and the U.S. debt ceiling in the coming week as the deadline for raising the nation’s borrowing limit approaches and Washington wrangles over a major budget deal. “It’s all about the debt ceiling debate in Washington,” said Scott Armiger, portfolio manager at Christiana Trust. Negotiations between U.S. congressional Republicans and Democrats continued on Sunday as Obama administration officials expressed confidence they will increase the U.S. debt limit and curb federal spending. Late Saturday, House Speaker John Boehner (R., Ohio) said he wanted to unveil such a plan by Sunday afternoon U.S. to avoid any potential havoc in Asian financial markets. The administration says the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling needs to be raised by Aug. 2 to avoid a debt default. Standard & Poor’s has warned the U.S. must make major reductions in debt levels to prevent a downgrade in its credit rating. The negotiations will share the spotlight with earnings from a number of companies. “Earnings have so far come in better than expected and I think the trend will continue into next week,” said Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG Group in New York . Among companies that are scheduled to release earnings in the week ahead are oil giants Chevron Corp.  , Valero Energy Corp.  and Exxon Mobil Corp. . Netflix Inc.  , Lockheed Martin Corp.  , Ford Motor Co.  , Boeing Co.   and Amazon.com Inc.  will also report their quarterly results. Companies listed in the S&P; 500 Index  are expected to increase earnings 9.2% during the second quarter, according to Thomson Reuters Research. Earnings would rise 15.2% excluding Bank of America Corp.  , which took a $8.8 billion loss related to charges from cleaning up its mortgage portfolio. Read more on Bank of America. In the coming week, 180 companies in the index are expected to report earnings. According to a report from Thomson’s StarMine division, which analyzes stock research ratings, miner Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.   and Consol Energy Inc.   are more likely to beat expectations. Insurance provider Assurant Inc.  and oil firm ConocoPhillips  are more likely to post a negative surprise, according to StarMine. “This week and next week are the biggest weeks for earnings reports and by the end of next week we’ll know how the earnings season has been,” said Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Asset Management Group . “If the earnings continue to come in like they have done so far, the markets will go up,” he added. Of the 143 companies in the index that have released earnings so far, 75% reported earnings above analyst’s expectations, with tech heavyweights Apple Inc.  and International Business Machines Corp.   at the top end of positive surprises. “Apple seemed to me as a genuine surprise, because it wasn’t just beating estimates with a penny,” said Bill Ryder, director of quantitative strategies at Riverfront Investment Group. Apple reported earnings of $7.79 a share, beating estimates of $5.80 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. 
The U.S. dollar fell against currencies considered safe havens Monday as deadlocked U.S. debt-ceiling talks left investors in limbo. The dollar’s misery is also helping the euro regain some lost ground. The dollar index , which tracks the U.S. unit’s performance against a basket of six other currencies, stood at 74.074, down from 74.221 late Friday. The dollar traded at 80.54 Swiss centimes in recent action, down 1% from late North American trading on Friday, after falling to an all-time low of 80.18 centimes earlier. There are 100 centimes in a Swiss franc. Against the Japanese yen, the dollar  traded at ¥78.24, down from ¥78.47 late Friday. Earlier Monday, the dollar slipped to ¥78.03, its lowest in about four months. Both currencies tend to benefit when investors shift out of riskier assets including stocks, emerging markets and oil. U.S. lawmakers missed a self-imposed Sunday evening deadline — before Asian markets opened — to announce a compromise that would raise the debt ceiling and eliminate the risk of an imminent default on its debt. Once again, negotiations over how to rein in the country’s deficits impeded a deal on the debt ceiling. Republican House Speaker John Boehner reportedly told colleagues he was still working on a two-stage plan, and President Barack Obama met with Democratic leaders late Sunday. “Investors are calling Washington’s bluff and still expect a deal to be reached to raise the debt ceiling at some stage this week,” said Kathleen Brooks, research director at Forex.com. “This uncertainty isn’t helping risky assets at the start of the week. It could also do irreparable damage to the U.S.’s reputation in the capital markets, and have just as many long-term consequences as a default.” U.S. stocks fell, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  shedding 0.6% and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lately losing 0.4%. Crude-oil futures  fell about 0.7%. Despite lingering nervousness over the European sovereign-debt crisis, the euro  recovered to trade at $1.4379 versus $1.4365 late Friday. The currency had dipped to $1.4345 earlier in the session. The euro’s revival is not so much about the currency itself but more about the dollar’s suffering, according to Kathy Lien, director of global research & analysis at GFT. “It is becoming more and more likely that the U.S. government will be unable to avoid a downgrade--debt talks have hit a brick wall and this public plea by senators to get a deal done is more a sign of desperation,” she said. Earlier Monday, Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating three notches and said default is almost certain when private bond investors take part in a debt exchange under the most recent bailout plan for the nation. Regarding the plan for Greece announced last week by the EU, “our big concern is this plan has done nothing to stop the contagion to Italy and Spain and the package is not big enough to handle the issues there,” said Helen Haworth, head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse. The British pound  bought $1.6296, down from $1.6304 late Friday, and the Australian dollar  changed hands at $1.0854, compared with $1.0860. 
 By , MarketWatch SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Both sides are spoiled, entitled, unwilling to compromise, and hopelessly out of touch with their constituents. But that didn’t stop the National Football League owners and players from coming up with an 11th-hour solution to save the season. And it won’t stop our pitiful leaders in Washington either, even though a full football season is arguably more important to most people than the U.S. debt rating. The permanent smudge a downgrade of U.S. debt would leave on the Obama presidency, as well as the Republican congressional majority, is just a sideshow right now — summertime political entertainment to make up for the lack of training-camp news. Treasury debt investors have taken the increasing threats of a downgrade — and default — in stride, judging by the gains in Treasury bonds and notes   in the last few months and the lack of any big scares in the last several days. In fact, it’s possible that, once the dreaded downgrade finally arrives, a renewed rally will hit the Treasury market. Imagine, a flight to quality and the safe haven of Treasury bonds, in reaction to a downgrade of U.S. debt? The fact is, there is nowhere else to go, especially with European debt in such a messy state. Treasurys with double-A ratings are just as good as those with triple-A ratings when it comes to a crisis. So maybe that explains why, other than a slow-motion car wreck in the stock market this week, investors are leaving the panic this summer to the politicians. U.S. money market funds, big holders of European bank debt, have been quietly unloading it over the last few weeks in favor of Treasurys, which actually is an ominous sign for Europe. But it is a strong sign that investors believe whatever political shenanigans occur in Washington will not ultimately hit the U.S. reputation for credit quality. Alas, the lack of market reaction is adding to the political drama as it has emboldened the politicians to continue their game of chicken. Even short-term elected officials should remember the day the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 775 points in late 2008 when Congress voted down the initial TARP plan to bail out the banks. The shame of having to go back and vote it through the next day to save the financial system well exceeded the latest embarrassing incidents of sexting and dressing up like Tigger on Capitol Hill. History may have to repeat itself. A downgrade would lead to initial confusion because many funds require themselves to hold Triple A-rated debt. But that would be sorted out relatively quickly and investors should see any big declines as a buying opportunity. One way or another, the U.S. will continue to borrow and investors will be willing to lend. In the absence of another Lehman moment, which is unlikely for the simple reason that everybody is shouting so loudly that it is nigh, investors need to consider that removing the political uncertainty of a downgrade would actually benefit the market by allow a return of focus to the economy and the jobs problem. More jobs means more tax revenue, and that would help reduce our crushing debt burden. Not entirely, but it would help. In the meantime, just as sure as the New York Jets will be playing in the Super Bowl come February, the economy will continue to slowly recover. The big losers in this whole scandal are going to be the politicians, on both sides of the coin. Voters will make sure of that. Investors will go on to the next crisis, and find ways to profit from it. 
Boeing Co. said it would build fewer 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 freighter planes this year after temporarily halting production, but eased Wall Street concerns that the programs’ could fall further behind schedule by reaffirming first-delivery schedules. The reassurance helped Boeing  shares jump more than 3% in recent trading to $72.36, making the stock one of only three Dow Jones 30  components on the rise amid a general selloff. Earlier this summer, the Chicago-based aircraft manufacturer said it was halting production of the jetliners because of design changes and parts shortages. The move concerned Wall Street analysts and investors that plans to begin delivering the planes to customers in the third quarter could be delayed again. The 787 alone is already more than three years behind its original first-delivery target of May 2008. Instead, Boeing trimmed its 2011 delivery guidance for both aircraft to a range of 25 to 30 units, from a prior range of 24 to 40, and reaffirmed the planes would reach market as planned. The jetliners, currently undergoing test flights, have been popular with customers because of their promised fuel-efficiency improvements, but the programs have fallen years behind schedule due to supply-chain problems and last-minute design changes. “Barring any last-minute issues that can’t be resolved for some reason, both the 787 and the 747-8 freighter are on track for first deliveries later in the third quarter,” said Boeing Chairman and Chief Executive James McNerney, on a call with analysts. Boeing stock has declined about 8% in the past three months, though for the year the blue-chip component’s still up about 2%. Also giving a boost to the Boeing shares was better-than-expected earnings in the second quarter, helped by more wide-body jet deliveries and improved production in both its commercial and government businesses, prompting the company to hike its full-year profit outlook. Earnings for the most recent period increased to $941 million, or $1.25 a share, from $787 million, or $1.06 a share, earned in the year-ago second quarter. Revenue rose 6% to $16.54 billion from $15.57 billion, with commercial airplane deliveries up 4% to 118. Analysts surveyed by FactSet Research had been looking for earnings of 98 cents a share, on average, with sales pegged at $16.47 billion. And for the full year, Boeing raised its earnings outlook to between $3.90 and $4.10 a share, up from a prior view of $3.80 to $4 a share. Wall Street‘s consensus for 2011 earnings stands at $4.12 a share. 
The U.S. dollar skidded to all-time lows against several currencies on Wednesday but rebounded as U.S. stocks reeled on the back of the debt-ceiling stalemate. The greenback’s recovery against the euro was also aided by a high-ranking German official who threw cold water on last week’s rescue plan for Greece. The dollar index  , which tracks the U.S. unit’s performance against a basket of six other currencies, traded at 74.088, up from 73.501 late Tuesday. The index had earlier skidded to an intraday low of 73.421. However, sharp losses in U.S. equities helped it to make a comeback. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  skidded 1.4% to 12,321.40 while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index   slumped 1.9% to 1,307.17. The Nasdaq Composite Index  shed 2.4% to 2,770.16. “Stock markets are having a bad day and the tried and tested negative correlation between risk appetite and the dollar seems to be alive and kicking, despite the fact that US debt ceiling uncertainties are a primary cause of risk aversion,” said Ray Attrill, head of FX strategy for America at BNP Paribas. “It may also be that month-end demand is adding some support to the dollar as today is the last day for regular settlement for month-end FX deals,” he added. Against the yen, the dollar  traded at ¥78. The dollar had slipped as low as ¥77.54, according to FactSet Research — a depth not seen since its all-time low below the ¥77 mark on March 17, and down from ¥77.90 late Tuesday. Earlier, the dollar fell to a low of 79.96 centimes against the Swiss franc , on the EBS trading platform, compared with 80.10 centimes late Tuesday. The dollar bought 80.39 centimes in recent action. There are 100 centimes in a Swiss franc. Both the yen and the franc have long been considered the alternative currencies of choice when investors want to move into a safe haven and out of riskier assets. For its part, the dollar has played that role less frequently in recent months. The euro  slipped to $1.4365 from $1.4514 in late North American trading Tuesday. The euro’s decline was precipitated by German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble reminding the markets that the euro zone’s sovereign-debt problems are far from over. In particular, analysts noted his comments that Berlin opposes a carte blanche for the euro zone’s bailout fund to buy government bonds in the secondary market — a piece of last week’s proposal seen as crucial to avoiding the spread of debt contagion into other, bigger countries. 
Whole Foods Market Inc. shares rallied on an upbeat outlook in Wednesday’s after-hours session while disappointing numbers from Akamai Technologies Inc. weighed heavily on its stock. The Nasdaq-100 After Hours Indicator, which tracks the evening action of leading tech stocks, moved fractionally lower at 2,429 points. Earlier, political sparring over the nation’s debt limit and a drop in durable-goods orders kept U.S. stocks deep in the red in regular trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  shed 199 points to close at 12,303 points while the S&P; 500 Index  and Nasdaq Composite Index  both gave up more than 2%. After the close, Akamai  shares dropped more than 12% to $25.89, leading all evening decliners by a wide margin. The company reported a fiscal second-quarter profit that, while higher, missed Wall Street targets. Whole Foods Market  shares rallied more than 4% in evening trades after the organic grocer raised its fiscal 2011 outlook. The company also reported higher earnings and co-Chief Executive Walter Robb said it is “continuing to gain market share at a faster rate than most public food retailers.” Leading all advancers after the close, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.  shares surged 19% after the company posted huge profit and sales gains in the third quarter. Green Mountain cited the success of its Keurig single cup brewing system. Back on the technology front, shares of Citrix Systems Inc. fell more than 7% late even after the business software maker reported higher second-quarter profit and revenue. Symantec Corp.  shares moved in the other direction, up almost 2% on the heels of the security software maker’s surprisingly strong first-quarter report. Shoe maker Crocs Inc.  posted a higher second-quarter profit that easily topped analyst estimates, helping boost its shares slightly in evening trades. Earnings aside, shares of Dunkin’ Donuts Brands Inc.  closed up almost 50% in their stock market debut before tacking on a few more pennies in evening trade. 
The House Republican leadership Thursday night cancelled a vote on the deficit-reduction plan authored by Speaker John Boehner after a rebellion from conservatives left the bill in jeopardy of being rejected. House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy announced the news over four hours and several delivered pizzas after the initially scheduled vote that had been postponed in a futile effort to secure enough Republican support. The Boehner bill’s prospects always had been considered iffy as a zeal for cutting spending runs deep in the 87-member freshman Republican class and the Democrats were unwilling to help. Where this leaves efforts to increase the debt ceiling and avoid a potential default before what the Treasury Department says is an Aug. 2 deadline is unclear. The Senate had been preparing to quickly reject the House bill in any event, and from there attempt a bipartisan compromise. A rival plan from Sen. Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who leads the upper chamber of Congress, wasn’t likely to get any Republican support. The immediate market reaction wasn’t positive, with futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping 97 points. The U.S. dollar  also quickly lost ground, hitting a fresh four-month low against the Japanese yen. U.S. stocks lost ground ahead of the scheduled vote Thursday, with the Dow industrials  closing down 62 points and marking a fifth day of losses. On Wednesday, the blue-chip index shed nearly 200 points as investors fretted about a resolution to the debt-ceiling stalemate. Boehner’s bill would immediately hike the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by $900 billion, with another $1.6 trillion increase next year contingent on more deficit reduction. Democrats want a bill that extends the debt ceiling past the 2012 elections. Reid’s and Boehner’s plans share similarities, including creating a new panel to identify future deficit-reduction measures. But the amount of the debt-ceiling increase appears to be the major sticking point between the House and the Senate. As for the tea-party supporters, the lack of a balanced-budget amendment in the Boehner plan was a key impediment, and the relatively small amount of savings was also a sticking point. The impact of a debt-ceiling violation is unclear. The White House and the Treasury Department warn they aren’t sure whether the government would be able to make U.S. government bond payments and cut Social Security paychecks after Aug. 2. Wall Street analysts speculate the Treasury may have as much as a week’s additional funds before running out of cash. While there would be enough money from tax receipts to service bonds, pay Social Security and military salaries, it’s not clear whether the Treasury has the legal authority to prioritize payments, and even if it did, rating agency Standard & Poor’s said making selective payments would constitute a technical default and roughly half the government would have to shut down. Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah requested Treasury to detail its contingency plan but the department didn’t meet a deadline of Thursday night to do so. Earlier Thursday, S&P; reiterated a threat to downgrade the U.S.’s prized Triple-A debt rating even if the debt ceiling is increased, with the credit rater saying $4 trillion worth of deficit reduction would be a good down payment. 
European stock markets fell Friday after the U.S. slashed its estimate of first-quarter economic growth and as fears of a possible default by Washington grew amid confusion about efforts to raise the nation’s borrowing limit. The Stoxx Europe 600 index  declined 0.7% to close at 265.25. The index ended July with a monthly decline of 2.5%. “It is amazing to see that financial markets haven’t started to go into complete meltdown considering the ramifications of a default or downgrade to U.S. debt,” said Simon Denham, head of Capital Spreads. The benchmark extended losses after the U.S. government cut its estimate of first-quarter growth to 0.4% down from the 1.9% expansion initially estimated. The Commerce Department also reported a preliminary second-quarter growth rate of 1.3%, compared to the 1.6% consensus forecast. U.S. markets saw sharp early losses, including a triple-digit decline by the Dow Jones Industrial Average , after the data. Wall Street later trimmed losses as President Barack Obama urged Congress compromise on the debt-ceiling issue. European stocks had already been hit by news that the House Republican leadership late Thursday cancelled a vote on Speaker John Boehner’s deficit-reduction plan in the face of a rebellion by conservatives. And closer to home, Moody’s Investors Service warned it may downgrade Spanish government debt. Banks stood out among the main decliners, with Credit Agricole SA  shedding 2.4% in Paris after the lender said late Thursday that losses at its Greek business will knock around 850 million euros ($1.21 billion) off second-quarter results. Among other major banks, Societe Generale  fell 2.4% and BNP Paribas  lost 2%, helping pull the CAC 40 index  down 1.1% to settle at 3,672.77 in Paris. “With so much going on and so many variables to consider, it’s really hard to now say that equities are a good place to put your money, no matter how many people say that overall they look cheap,” Denham noted. Disappointing earnings announcements also weighed on several stocks, particularly in Paris. Shares of Veolia  shed 9.5% after taking write-downs and cutting its guidance for the year. Schneider Electric SA dropped 1.5% as first-half results fell short of market expectations due to the rising cost of raw materials. Tire manufacturer Michelin SA  sank 4.2% after the company said rising raw-material costs will contribute to a negative cash flow for the year. Analysts at Deutsche Bank said that Europe’s second-quarter earnings season so far has been the weakest in two years — and could become the weakest since 2005 in terms of the number of companies beating earnings expectations. Among the stronger performers in Europe, shares of mobile-network operator Vodafone Group PLC    rose 4% in London, gaining after Verizon Wireless, its U.S. joint venture with Verizon Communications Inc. , said it will pay a $10 billion dividend to its two owners. Vodafone said it will receive 2.8 billion pounds ($4.5 billion) and will pay out £2 billion to shareholders in the form of a special dividend. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 index  dropped 1% to close at 5,815.19. Miner Anglo American PLC  dropped 3.3% after results fell short of some analyst expectations and as it also warned that costs are rising. In Germany, the DAX 30 index  fell 0.4% to end at 7,158.77, weighed down by a 1.5% drop for electric utility RWE AG . On the upside, Linde AG  rose 3.3% after the industrial-gasses producer reported a 27% jump in first-half net profit and reaffirmed its outlook for the year. 
Yields on some of the shortest-dated U.S. debt, and other rates watched as gauges of capital-markets fear, have risen in the past week as the U.S. draws closer to running the risk of a default. Still, short-term rate increases have remained relatively tame compared to jolts hitting stocks and the currency markets as U.S. lawmakers argue over legislation that would raise the debt ceiling and cut the deficit. The overnight London interbank offered rate for dollars, a metric of banks’ willingness to lend to each other, sat at 0.13% Friday, up a fraction in the last week. Three-month Libor traded at 0.25% to 0.26%, wavering within a 2-basis-point range for the month. One basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point. Some indicators of short-term borrowing costs have slid. The gap between the three-month T-bill interest rate  and three-month Libor rates, known as the TED spread, fell Friday by 2 basis points to 0.16%, and is down from 0.21% a week ago. It jumped to about 4% during the credit crisis then plunged back and has wavered in a tight range for more than a year. Those moderate moves contrast with stocks and the dollar, which have shown signs investors are starting to panic — or at least position themselves for a very changed landscape. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 4.2% on the week, its worst week in more than a year. The U.S. dollar has tumbled against the Japanese yen  and the Swiss franc  , losing 2% and 3.8% respectively, as investors have prized the yen and franc as better safe-haven choices. Still, even slight increases in short-term rates, particularly as the Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark lending rate near 0%, raises some red flags. A creep in rates implies “the debt ceiling and the lingering credit rating debate may have longer-lasting and adverse effects on funding costs,” said Jim Caron, head of global interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley. The Treasury has said the government will run out of money to pay its bills on Aug. 2 if Congress doesn’t raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. Even if lawmakers avoid that scenario with last minute legislation, the country risks losing its triple-A rating if enough long-term deficit cuts aren’t part of the deal. Some recent rises in lending rates may reflect fund managers’ caution that investors will start bailing. Treasury bill rates have jumped, though are still a very low levels. One-month Treasury bill rates  jumped 7 basis points Friday to 0.18%. They’re up from 0.05% a week ago. Three-month bill rates  added 1 basis point to 0.09%, also about doubling from a week ago. That puts them at the highest levels since May. Part of that is being caused by money-market funds selling off holdings of Treasury bills in favor of plain old cash just to be ready if their investors want out, said Raymond Attrill, head of foreign exchange strategy for North America at BNP Paribas. “Money markets typically invested in high-grade assets are hoarding liquidity, more against the tail risk of a default than a downgrade, which is reasonably well prices in,” Attrill said. 
The semiconductor industry gained in late trading Friday, and U.S. stock futures moved lower before leveling off as the U.S. drew another day closer to a potential default on its sovereign debt. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell as much as 103 points before paring losses in electronic trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The Nasdaq-100 After Hours Indicator, which tracks the evening action of leading tech stocks, inched up 0.1% to 2,365.16. The semiconductor industry helped boost the after-hours indicator as KLA-Tencor Corp.  and Applied Materials Inc.  rose 0.6%. Vodafone Group  added 0.7%. The stock extended gains after Verizon Wireless announced Thursday afternoon it would be distributing $10 billion in dividends. Vodafone owns 45% of the wireless company. Green Mountain Coffee Roasters  extended its three-session gain in late trading, adding 0.6%. Moving to the downside was Netflix Inc. , edging 0.6% lower after-hours as investors continued to digest the backlash from the company’s recent fee hike. Shares of Genworth Financial Inc.  slipped 0.6% after the company reported strong gains in regular trading. Genworth, and fellow insurer MetLife Inc. , announced Friday possible plans to return excess capital to shareholders. House lawmakers announced late Friday they were preparing to vote around 6:30 p.m. Eastern on a Republican bill that would raise the U.S. debt ceiling and slash about $917 billion in government spending over a decade. The proposal gained steam among Republicans after party leaders tied a second hike in the debt ceiling to passing a balanced-budget amendment. However, President Barack Obama opposes the bill and is backing a rival measure in the Senate. The administration has said the U.S. is in danger of defaulting if the $14.3 trillion debt limit isn’t raised by Tuesday. No significant earnings were scheduled for after the close Friday. Next week, the utilities sector leads the way with Duke Energy Corp. , Entergy Corp.  , Southwestern Energy Co.  are all scheduled to report. In regular trading the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell nearly 97 points, or 0.8%, to 12,143, with 29 of its 30 components moving lower. The S&P; 500  fell 0.7% and the Nasdaq Composite Index  lost 0.4%. 
Energy stocks fell Friday, swept up in a sixth consecutive equities market selloff on fears U.S. lawmakers might fail to resolve a debt crisis by the Tuesday deadline. Failure to stitch together an agreement to raise the nation’s debt ceiling could plunge the U.S.into default for the first time, the Obama administration has warned. The energy sector was also pressured by a Commerce Department report that showed the U.S. economy grew only 1.3% in the second quarter, well below the 1.6% growth rate economists had expected. At the same time, first-quarter growth was revised lower to a mere 0.4%, raising fresh concerns over the painfully slow pace of recovery and whether that will dampen energy demand in the second half of 2011. The debt-ceiling debate and GDP data dealt a one-two punch to oil prices, sending the September crude-oil futures contract down $1.74 to $95.70 a barrel in New York. The blow landed squarely on energy stocks, pushing the NYSE Arca Oil Index  down 1% to 1,284.51 points, wiping out a modest mid-session rally in the process and leaving the index with a 4.4% decline for the week. It also slightly lagged the rest of the market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell nearly 97 points, or 0.8%, to 12,143 while the S&P; 500 Index  shed 0.7% to close at 1,292. Shares of Dow component Chevron Corp.  fell 0.3% to close at $104.72. Chevron, the second-biggest U.S.-based oil company after Exxon Mobil Corp.  , reported a second-quarter profit of $3.85 a share, a 51% jump from its earnings a year ago. But the company’s revenue came in at $68.9 billion, falling short of the $71.58 billion analysts had expected. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  fared somewhat better than the oil index, falling 1.8% to 699.34 points. Chesapeake Energy  ,helped limit the damage, rising 2.8% to $34.35 as investors reacted to the gas producer’s second-quarter results, which it released after the close Thursday. But there were few other gainers in the group. At the other end of the index, Southwestern Energy Co.  shares fell 6% to $44.56. A second-quarter earnings report mentioned output from new wells was about 7% less than a year ago. Southwestern was the second-biggest percentage decliner in the S&P; 500 Index Friday. Meanwhile, the Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index  slipped 0.5% to end the session at 273.55 points, leaving it with a 2.2% decline for the week. Despite the retreat, the index is still up nearly 12% so far this year. Energy sector earnings reports next week will be dominated by publicly-traded utilities, including results from Duke Energy and Entergy  on Tuesday, Constellation Energy Group  , Northeast Utilities  and Public Service Enterprise Group  on Wednesday. PG&E; Corp.  , Pepco Holdings  and Centerpoint Energy  will all be reporting quarterly results on Thursday. 
U.S. stocks slid Friday, sending two major indexes to their worst week in more than a year, as Congress prolonged the uncertainty over the nation’s debt ceiling. “The debt issue is hurting the economy,” said Aaron Smith, senior economist at Moody’s Analytics. “Confidence is dissolving more rapidly than the data and markets would suggest.” The White House said President Barack Obama would consider signing a short-term extension of the debt ceiling if it would give lawmakers time to complete a longer-term deal. But spokesman Jay Carney said the administration still believes a deal can be done to raise the borrowing limit by Aug. 2. “I don’t think Tuesday is as big of a deal as say midmonth; interest payments are due on the 15th, so if we didn’t have a deal by then it could get ugly pretty fast,” added Smith at Moody’s Analytics. Recovering from a 156-point drop, the Dow Jones Industrial Average   ended down 96.87 points, or 0.8%, to 12,143.24. The blue-chip benchmark lost 4.2% from a week ago, its worst week in percentage terms since early July 2010. It’s fallen 2.2% for the month of July, its third straight monthly loss. The S&P; 500 Index  declined 8.39 points, or 0.7%, to 1,292.28, with a drop in energy and materials leading declines for all 10 industry groups. For the week, the index of large-cap U.S. companies has lost 3.9% — also its worst stretch in just over a year — and 2.2% for the month. The Nasdaq Composite Index  ended down 9.87 points, or 0.4%, to 2,756.38. It’s lost 3.6% for the week and 0.6% for the month. For every stock that rose about two fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.2 billion shares traded hands In the week ahead, “the debt-ceiling debate is issue number one, and then the attention will quickly shift to the jobs report on Friday, we’re thinking we’ll see some improvement,” said Smith at Moody’s Analytics of the nonfarm payrolls report for July. “The concerning thing is if we do get a weak number, the July numbers are going to predate the most intense debt-ceiling driven caution on the part of companies that we’ve seen,” said Smith of reluctance on the part of cash-flush corporate America to hire, given the shaky climate. Given the July employment data is based on a survey conducted fairly early in the month and the debt-ceiling dysfunction has ramped up in the past seven to 10 days, the “uncertainty this is creating will be fully reflected in August (payrolls) number, particularly if we don’t get a quick resolution in the next week,” Smith said. Stock investors also wrestled with a new report showcasing tepid U.S. economic growth. On Thursday, the Commerce Department said gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3% rate in the second quarter, below the 1.6% forecast by economists. Separately, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of consumer sentiment fell in July to its lowest level since March 2009. The disappointing GDP report helped drive up Treasurys, as investors sought U.S. government debt as safe-havens — even as the prospect of a U.S. default loomed. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes  tumbled 15 basis points to 2.8%. Yields move inversely to prices, and a basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point. Crude-oil futures   fell $1.74 to end at $95.7 a barrel, while December gold futures   gained $15 to finish at a record $1,631.20 an ounce. But stalled efforts to come to an agreement on raising the nation’s debt ceiling overshadowed the day’s economic reports, with only four days to go before a threatened default according to a Treasury Department deadline. “We’re almost out of time,” said Obama in making another bid for compromise on the deficit and debt ceiling, arguing that while the House plan is moot and that both sides are not that far apart. 
U.S. manufacturing activity barely grew in July, according to a key index released Monday in a demonstration of an economy struggling to expand. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge in July dropped 4.4 points to 50.9%, the worst reading since July 2009 and barely staying above the 50% no-change line. The index came in far below a MarketWatch-compiled economist poll of 54.3%. U.S. stocks slumped after the ISM report, with the Dow industrials  recently down by 35 points. Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds fell to their lowest level since November. Since April, the ISM index has slumped 9.5 points, the worst three-month dip since the September-to-November 2008 period when Lehman Brothers collapsed. The new orders index fell into contractionary territory for the first time since June 2009, and indexes for prices and employment in particular saw big drops. The prices index has dropped a stunning 26.5 points over the past three months. The employment gauge fell 6.4 points to 53.5%. “It’s impossible to say whether it’s a step to a renewed recession. Last year there was a similar dip and things perked back up again,” said Holden Lewis, senior equity research analyst for commercial and industrial group at BB&T; Capital Markets. “But I would tell you it’s more worrisome than any grouping of numbers since the recovery began.” Though earnings season was strong for industrial companies, the ISM is a leading indicator by about three to five months, so firms might not notice demand slippage until later in the year, Lewis added. Similar gauges released across the globe pointed to deteriorating if not contracting conditions. One of the worst came from Brazil, where the HSBC Brazil manufacturing PMI fell in July to 47.8, the second consecutive month below the 50 no-change line and the worst reading since May 2009. China, Russia, the U.K., Spain and Greece also reported sub-50 readings. BB&T;’s Lewis said the slowing in emerging markets demand was a particular problem. “They were universally not good,” he said. And while the U.S. and euro-zone readings may have been impacted by the debt-ceiling and the Greek aid debate, respectively, China’s data probably wasn’t. A respondent to the ISM survey noticed a similar trend. “With products sold internationally, the business conditions we are currently experiencing are declining from abnormally [high] record-breaking levels,” said one manager in the machinery industry. “Business conditions are currently flattening to more normal volumes, while trending slightly downward.” The ISM index is calculated by polling manufacturing supply managers on whether they are seeing increasing or decreasing activity compared to the prior month on a number of topics. The headline index is a composite of the seasonally adjusted indexes for new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries and inventories. 
Energy stocks lost ground Monday, tracking broader losses on Wall Street following a disappointing report on U.S. manufacturing that also took crude-oil prices to a five-week low. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  fell 0.2% to 1,281.9 points, wrapping up a volatile session that opened with a rally to 1,303, followed by a snap reversal that took the index as low as 1,269. Energy stocks opening gains built on news Sunday that President Barack Obama and Senate leaders had struck a tentative “framework” debt deal aimed at cutting spending and raising the debt ceiling. But the Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge on Monday showed a drop to 50.9% for July, the worst reading since July 2009 and barely above the 50% no-change line. The data cast a pall on prospects for oil demand, fueling a decline in September crude , which briefly pushed it as low as $94.30 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract ended the session 81 cents lower at $94.89, its lowest close since June 29. The Dow Jones Industrial Average followed a similar trajectory, falling nearly 11 points to 12,132.49, after reaching an early high of 12,282.42. The S&P; 500 Index  shed 0.4% to 1,286.9. Dow component Chevron Corp.  was among the few gainers in the energy sector, holding an advance of 1.3% to close at $105.38. But Exxon Mobil Corp.  saw its stock slip 0.2% to $79.60. It touched a low of $78.74, its weakest intraday level since June 28. The Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index  slipped 0.8% to 271.37 points, while the NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  rose 0.2% to 700.43 points. Baker Hughes Inc.  was the largest decliner in the S&P; 500’s energy equipment and services sector, trading 2.5% lower at $75.43. Offshore driller Rowan Cos.  is set to report financial results Tuesday and Transocean Ltd.  plans to report Wednesday. “RDC has recently completed a restructuring program and further uses of cash will be a key topic, while RIG may articulate increasing downtime as a result of operator scrutiny and potentially new offshore regulations,” analysts at Barclays Capital said in a note to clients Monday. Energy sector earnings reports this week will be dominated by publicly-traded utilities, including results from Duke Energy and Entergy  on Tuesday, and Constellation Energy Group  , Northeast Utilities  and Public Service Enterprise Group  on Wednesday. PG&E; Corp.  , Pepco Holdings  and Centerpoint Energy  are expected to report quarterly results on Thursday. 
Financial stocks closed down along with the broader market Monday, with negative manufacturing data killing off an earlier rally on Wall Street but with Allstate Corp. clinging to gains. The Financial Select Sector SPDR , which had earlier risen as high as 1.6%, closed down 0.3% after sellers cut down an early-morning rally fueled by a tentative weekend deal in Washington to raise the federal debt ceiling while making budget cuts. The KBW Bank Index , which tracks the leading 24 banks, fell 0.2%. After staging a triple-digit rally at the open, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  hit the brakes when the Institute for Supply Management’s gauge showed U.S. manufacturing activity barely grew in July. Financials were the fifth best-performing sector in the S&P; 500 Index’s  10 sectors, trailing gains in telecom and utilities, and losses in energy and tech. The S&P; 500 Index closed down 5.34 points, or 0.4%, at 1,286.94. Ken Tower, senior analyst at Quantitative Analysis Service in Jersey City, N.J., said it’s encouraging financials were not the among the worst performing sectors in the market downturn, indicating the market is not heading for a larger fall. “I think the ISM data was kind of a cold splash of water in the faces of investors who looked at the debt deal as a sign of improvement, but the ISM data is more tied to last week’s poor GDP than anything forward looking,” he added. Tower also said he still views the market in a bottoming mode, and that the S&P; 500 can stabilize in the 1,270 to 1,280 range. Allstate  closed up 2.2% to rank as the best-performing financial stock in the S&P; 500 Index. Quarterly results showed the insurer swinging to a second-quarter loss of $642 million, or $1.19 a share, from a profit of $441 million, or 27 cents a share, a year ago, due to a series of catastrophic loss events including five tornadoes. Revenue for the quarter rose 5% to $8.08 billion. Analysts polled by FactSet Research, however, had forecast Allstate would lose $1.46 a share, on average, on revenue of $6.63 billion. Dow component Bank of America Corp.  saw shares finish up 1%. Earlier, the firm’s Merrill Lynch unit named Peter Johnson as managing director and head of global futures and over-the-counter clearing. The other three financial components of the Dow — J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , Travelers Cos.  and American Express Co.  — closed lower. Among banks, Citigroup Inc. , M&T; Bank Corp. , PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  and Keycorp  managed to hold slight gains. Among financials’ leading decliners, shares of real-estate investment trusts that cater to seniors’ and health-care facilities dropped after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said Friday they plan to reduce payments to nursing facilities by 11.1% in the new fiscal year. Shares of Health Care REIT Inc. , HCP Inc.  and Ventas Inc. all showed declines of 3% or more. Also, shares of First Niagara Financial Group  shed 2.7% as investors reacted to the company’s agreement to acquire from HSBC Holdings PLC  195 bank branches in upstate New York and Connecticut for about $1 billion in cash. 
Treasury prices rose Tuesday, pushing 2-year yields to their lowest levels on record, after President Barack Obama signed into law a plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and cut the budget deficit. Bonds had been higher throughout the session as problems flared up in Europe and disappointing economic data added to worries that the federal debt-ceiling deal will slow growth. “Rates are going to be lower for longer,” said Bret Barker, senior portfolio manager at TCW, which oversees $65 billion in fixed-income assets. “With uncertainty about the debt and questions about growth and Europe, we’re seeing a flight to quality into Treasurys.” Yields on 10-year notes , which move inversely to prices, fell 12 basis points to 2.63%. They earlier touched 2.60%, the lowest level since early November. A basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point. Yields on 2-year notes  declined 4 basis points to 0.33%. They touched 0.31%, matching the all-time low. Thirty-year bond yields dropped 15 basis points to 3.93%, the first time the yields have dropped under 4% in almost nine months. Economists noted that the deal, in cutting the deficit over the next decade, would subtract from the U.S. growth outlook on top of the end of some the payroll-tax holiday, emergency unemployment benefits and other tax maneuvers that were slated to end soon anyway. Bonds stayed higher in morning trading after the Commerce Department said personal income rose a seasonally adjusted 0.1% during June, the smallest increase since last November. Spending by consumers unexpectedly dropped 0.2% — the first decline in nearly two years. While some of the data points were part of the gross domestic product report for the second quarter released last Friday, “this is still a weak report and starts the third quarter off on a soft note and we’d need decent consumption numbers ... to lift from this soft base,” said bond strategists at CRT Capital Group. “Treasurys have been responding to the deteriorating economic prospects in the U.S. with major economic data in the last few days raising concerns again that the economy may dip back into a recession,” said David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT. U.S. debt also gained before the data as worries about rising Spanish and Italian bond yields fueled flows into assets deemed safer. Investors sought a safer harbor as stocks fell, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  losing 1.3% -- its eighth straight decline. I wouldn’t be surprised that if we have a severe drop in equities or problems with Italy to see 10-year yields go back to 2.50%,” TCW’s Barker said. “We don’t think that’s sustainable, but it wouldn’t surprise me.” The bond market also breathed a sign of relief that the debt deal being finalized allows the Treasury Department to proceed with its quarterly debt refunding on schedule. 
Financial stocks closed down Tuesday, weighed down by banks, as debt-ceiling legislation was signed into law and weak U.S. economic data persisted. The KBW Bank Index , which tracks the leading 24 banks, fell 3.2% to close at 44.44 points. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , which takes up the biggest position in the gauge, closed down 1.5% at $39.84. In comparison, the Financial Select Sector SPDR , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500 Index , fell 2.7% to close at 14.35 points. The broader market logged similar declines with the Dow Jones Industrial Index  falling 2.2% for its eighth losing day in a row, its longest losing streak since October 2008. The S&P; 500 also closed down 2.6%, and the Nasdaq Composite Index  down 2.8%. John Canally, an investment strategist at LPL Financial, said Tuesday’s sell-off is linked to deteriorating economic circumstances and concerns that Friday’s jobs report will be similarly dismal. Earlier in the day, the Commerce Department said personal income rose 0.1% but consumer spending declined by 0.2%. Concerning financial stocks, the strategist said investors are concerned another round of consumer defaults and bankruptcies are on the horizon, although he sees little evidence to that effect. Also, banks are under pressure because they are likely to make less on lending as the yield gap on 3-year  and 5-year  Treasury notes narrows, he said. “The yield curve has flattened recently and that is going to squeeze bank profits going forward,” Canally said. Huntington Bancshares Inc. , Fifth Third Bancorp , Zions Bancorp.  , SunTrust Banks Inc.  , Comerica Inc.  , BB&T; Inc.  were some of the hardest hit banks of the S&P; financials sector with shares losing more than 3%. On Tuesday, the Senate passed its version of a bill to raise the U.S. debt ceiling in a 74-26 vote, after the House passed theirs 269-161 late Monday. Soon after, President Barack Obama signed the legislation into law. Other notable decliners in the financials sector included Legg Mason Inc.  , E-Trade Financial Corp. , Capital One Financial Corp.  , Citigroup Inc.  and NYSE Euronext . Ace Ltd. shares were one of two financial stock gainers on the S&P; 500 Tuesday with shares closing up 0.4%. Principal Financial Group Inc.  shares closed at their session low of $27.44 for a gain of less than 0.1%. Shares had traded up as high as 5% earlier after Iowa-based provider of 401(k) and other retirement accounts said a day earlier that its second-quarter profit nearly doubled. Outside the S&P; 500, Radian Group Inc.’s  shares soared 15% to $3.55 after the mortgage insurer reported swinging to a profit in the second quarter. 
The stock market is poised today to do something it has not done in over 33 years: Decline for nine straight sessions. The last time the Dow Jones Industrial Average   did that, in fact, was Feb. 22, 1978, when Jimmy Carter was president and the country was struggling to come to grips with a period of anemic economic growth and high inflation. Isn’t it comforting to know that we’ve made such progress over the last three decades? Actually, about the only thing that is comforting in the historical data on Dow losing streaks is that many of them have occurred near major bear-market bottoms. For example, before February 1978, the previous time the Dow declined for nine straight sessions was in October 1974. That came just two months prior to the end of the punishing 1973-74 bear market. Does a streak of nine losing sessions in a row increase the odds that the market will rise on the 10th? Unfortunately not. In more than a few of the past cases in which the market dropped that many days in a row, the market continued dropping for at least another day. In fact, the all-time record for number of days in a row in which the Dow fell appears to be 14 — a streak that ended on Aug. 13, 1941, as the rumblings of World War II were reverberating through Wall Street. One can only hope that we’re not playing out that historical parallel. — 
The financial sector closed higher on Wednesday, mirroring the broader market which seesawed all day as corporate earnings and worries about the economy vied for investors’ attention. The Financial Select Sector SPDR  climbed 0.5% to 14.42 points, taking its cue from the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P; 500 , which both managed to close in the positive territory after volatile trading. Shares of XL Group PLC  soared 8.7% after the company reported strong growth in earnings. The insurance company late Tuesday reported second-quarter profit rose to $225.6 million, or 69 cents a share, from $191.8 million, or 56 cents, in the same quarter a year earlier. Legg Mason  added nearly 4% and Moody’s gained 3.8% to lead the sector. Marsh & McLennan Cos.  jumped 3.4% after reporting earlier Wednesday its second-quarter profit rose 19% to $282 million, or 50 cents a share. One of the biggest gainers of the day, MasterCard Inc. , posted a 33% jump in second-quarter earnings as the company benefited from double-digit increases in volume and processed transactions. Shares of the credit-card company were one of the strongest performers on the S&P;, rallying 13.4% to $338.47. There may be more upside to MasterCard’s share price, according to Janney Capital Market. Thomas McCrohan, managing director of equity research at Janney, has the credit-card company’s 12-month fair value estimate at $350 a share. Shares of Visa also gained 3.9% to $87.48. The credit-card company last week reported third-quarter adjusted earnings of $1.26 a share, better than the $1.22 a share projected by analysts in a FactSet Research survey. Weakness in the financial benchmark was widespread in early trades, but there were particularly harsh declines. CB Richard Ellis Group , IntercontinentalExchange Inc. , M&T; Bank and Morgan Stanley  were some of the hardest hit. 
 By , MarketWatch SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- You know it’s going to be a wild day in the market when investors look to Silvio Berlusconi for a pep talk. The Italian prime minister, speaking to his country’s Parliament Wednesday night in Rome, did his best to talk up the markets with pledges of cost cuts, yet he could not change the fact that Italy has become the new Greece. With all that entails. If it’s August it must be time for another chapter of the European crisis. But markets around the world, including in the U.S. these last two weeks, are forecasting something more sinister. The eight-day decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average  — snapped Wednesday with a paltry almost 30-point gain — shows that investors are discounting a new recession next year. The latest batch of economic reports are almost too weak to digest, though that didn’t stop MarketWatch’s Washington bureau chief from compiling them into a terrifying summer reading assignment on Wednesday. If the payrolls and unemployment numbers on Friday are anywhere near as bad as they are expected to be, then stocks could get even worse next week. Economists predict July’s nonfarm payrolls grew by a meager 75,000, and that the unemployment rate stood pat at 9.2%. Anything weaker than 75,000, or a worst-case scenario of a negative number, could spur a stampede out of equities. Some pundits claim the market is poised to bounce in coming days as the length of the latest decline has made it oversold. That’s probably right. A downgrade of the U.S. debt rating by Standard & Poor’s, removing that uncertainty, could be the catalyst, as I’ve said before. And it’s still entirely possible that stocks will come out of this summer with big gains heading into the end of the year. But the decline in stocks these last several days is a dramatic example of what happens when a market turns. The last eight-day decline in stocks, which came in October 2008, just a few weeks after Lehman Brothers collapsed, was equally brutal. Stocks did bounce back, but then slid again — for another five months before hitting the bottom in early March 2009. The economy is not as shell-shocked right now as it was then. It is on a pronounced downward slide, though, and no amount of Federal Reserve stimulus is going to counteract that, if indeed the Fed proceeds on a new spending program. For investors, it’s important to remember that the stock market is a leading indicator, which means the last two weeks of pain was not so much tied to the U.S. debt talks as to discounting of some future economic calamity, likely a recession. But just as in early 2009, the market will start rebounding long before it becomes clear that the economy is recovering. For investors hoping to capture those gains, the weakness of the last few weeks provides lots of opportunities in beaten-down sectors. A MarketWatch list of the worst-performing sectors in the last three months includes airlines, autos, real estate services, and financial stocks among the worst performers, for example. Clothing stocks, Internet companies, gold miners, oil equipment makers, and computer hardware companies make up the best performing list, and might weather a coming storm a bit better. Wednesday’s snap back was a welcome respite from the bloodletting of the last two weeks, but unlikely to be the end of the selling. The market volatility season of August, September and October has arrived right on time this year and investors can look forward to a wild ride before the traditional end-of-year rally. 
Energy stocks fell sharply Thursday as a bloodbath on Wall Street sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down a crushing 513 points, pushing the sector into the losing column for the 10th straight session. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 4.3% of its value. Within the 30-stock DJIA, Chevron Corp.  dropped 5.8% and Exxon Mobil Corp.  dropped 5%. The NYSE Arca Oil Index  dropped into negative territory for the year. In losses that mounted in late-day trading, the gauge of major oil producers ended lower by 6.8%, leaving it down 5.1% for 2011. Benchmark crude-oil futures settled 5.8% lower at $86.63 a barrel, the lowest ending point since February. Among big oil firms, shares of Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  dropped 9.7%, Petrobras  gave up 7.8%, Valero Energy Corp.  declined 9.7% and Marathon Oil Corp.  fell 9.2%. Among the other energy-sector benchmarks,the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  dropped 8.6% to 239, moving into the red for the year by 2.4%. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  declined 7% to 633, still up 4.6% for the year. Among notable decliners, Alpha Natural Resources Inc.  fell 17% as the worst performer among components of the S&P; 500 Index . The coal producer’s second-quarter adjusted earnings of 96 cents a share missed the consensus forecast of $1.14 a share in a survey of analysts by FactSet Research. Including onetime costs, Alpha Natural reported a loss of $56.4 million, or 36 cents a share. Items in the quarter included $254 million in pre-tax merger expenses related to its recently completed acquisition of Massey Energy. 
Asian stock markets were pounded Friday as a severe sell-off on Wall Street and escalating fears over the global economic outlook took a heavy toll on investor confidence, prompting a flight to safety. The stampede out of equities spared few sectors or individual stocks as losing stocks overwhelmed gainers across Asia, wiping out hundreds of billions of dollars in market capitalization across the region. China’s Shanghai Composite  was the best performers among the major markets in the region, finishing 2.2% lower at 2,626.42. Other markets lost even more heavily, with Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index  diving 4.3% to 20,946.14, Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  shrinking 3.7% at 9,299.88, Taiwan’s Taiex plunging 5.6% to 7,853.13, Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200 index down 4% to 4,105.4 and South Korea’s Kospi  off 3.7% to 1,943.75. “A complete crisis of confidence has emerged in the market,” said Toby Lawson, head of Asia Pacific futures, options and cash equities execution at brokerage Newedge. “That loss of confidence has led people to shed their holdings in assets, particularly equities, and jump into cash,” he said. An uncertain demand outlook for commodities amid worries over economic growth also weighed heavily on mining and energy stocks. Benchmark light sweet crude-oil futures  were trading below $85 a barrel in Nymex electronic trading during late Asian hours Friday, with the contract’s weekly loss so far tallying more than 11%. Weak economic data from the U.S., Europe and even Australia was making people worry about the possibility of another recession, he said. The session erased more than $136 billion in market value of companies listed on Japanese stock exchanges, according to data from FactSet Research. The Hong Kong stock exchange lost more than $132 billion in investor wealth, with the two main Chinese stock exchanges losing more than $84 billion. In Australia, the toll topped $62 billion and the Taiwanese markets shed more than $48 billion, according to FactSet data. Friday’s performance left Taiwan’s benchmark index with a net weekly loss of more than 9%, which was followed closely by an 8.9% decline for the Kospi and a 7.2% tumble for Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200. “It feels like an overreaction, but people aren’t going to view it as an overreaction until they have a reason to think otherwise,” said Naomi Fink, equity strategist at Jeffries Japan. She added that an upside surprise in Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls data would provide that catalyst. The U.S. likely gained 75,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate remained at 9.2%, according to economists surveyed by MarketWatch. Asian stocks plunged from the start on Friday after European shares tumbled Thursday, and U.S. stocks entered the correction territory, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  shedding 4.3% in the session. 
Energy stocks fell harder than the broader equities market Monday in the wake of steep sell-off in crude-oil futures, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped a sharp 635 points. Setting the stage for jaw-dropping losses in the energy sector juxtaposed against the backdrop of a downgrade in the U.S. credit rating, crude futures plunged further, retreating 6.4% to close at $81.31 a barrel. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 5.55%. Within the 30-stock DJIA, components Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. fell 6.2% and 7.5% respectively. For energy-sector gauges, the NYSE Arca Oil Index  dropped 8.5% to 1,051, its largest one-day drop in recent memory. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  fell back by 7.9% to 574. Worst of all, the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  fell 10% to 213. S&P; 500  components from the energy sector fell an average of 9.9% — the worst among 10 sub-sectors tracked by FactSet Research. Among Monday’s major decliners, shares of Sunoco Inc.  plunged 11.5%, Tesoro Corp.  gave up 14.4% and Marathon Petroleum Corp.  stumbled by 14.4%. Jacques Rousseau, energy analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said oil prices are dropping more sharply than gasoline prices on Monday, a boost for refiners, but he concluded that fears of lower demand are pushing down shares. Meanwhile, investors ignored positive analyst comments on two energy stocks. Oil major Royal Dutch Shell    drew an upgrade to outperform from perform at Oppenheimer & Co. Analyst Fadel Gheit set a price target of $80 on Shell’s shares and cited the company’s $60 billion investment over the past five years in major projects. “These projects will significantly boost earnings and cash flow, and we expect Shell to generate free cash flow beginning this year and increase sharply over the next three years,” Gheit said in a note to clients. “The surplus cash will allow Shell to fund new investments, raise the dividend, and/or buy back shares, all of which should enhance shareholder value.” Shares of Royal Dutch Shell dropped 6.8%. Also Monday, EOG Resources Inc.  was upgraded to buy from hold at Citi. Analysts also increased EOG’s price target by $10, to $130 a share. The independent oil and gas producer drew praise for its better-than-expected earnings. Citi analyst Robert Morris said the company’s well results in the Eagle Ford shale of southern Texas yield further credence to its reserve claims in the region. Morris expects EOG to expand output by about 10% in 2011 and 11% in 2012, driven by North American oil and liquids. Shares of EOG Resources fell 7.6%. 
Shares of Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. fell Monday evening following the videogame publisher’s weaker-than-expected quarterly results. Take-Two shares  were recently off 3.8% at $10.65. The company posted adjusted fiscal first-quarter earnings of 2 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by FactSet Research had forecast earnings of 10 cents a share. Take-Two reported revenue of $334.4 million compared with Wall Street’s forecast for $353.5 million in revenue. Take-Two swung to a first-quarter loss of $8.6 million, or 11 cents a share. In the year-ago period, it earned $27.4 million, or 31 cents a share, on $375.4 million in sales. For its second quarter, Take-Two forecast adjusted earnings of 55 cents to 65 cents a share on revenue between $70 million and $85 million. Analysts currently expect $195 million in revenue and a loss of 6 cents a share. Meanwhile, MGM Resorts International swung to a second-quarter profit of $3.44 billion, or $6.22 a share, citing strong earnings from its recently expanded MGM China operations. In the year-ago quarter, it lost $883 million, or $2 a share. Excluding a $3.5 billion gain from its MGM China business, MGM Resorts posted an adjusted loss of 8 cents a share, beating the FactSet Research forecast for a loss of 14 cents a share. Revenue for the quarter rose to $1.97 billion from $1.71 billion. Revenue was forecast to rise to $1.59 billion. MGM’s late-traded shares fell 3.6% to $11.12. Some banking stocks were mixed in evening trade after a rough dayside ride. Late-traded shares of Bank of America  were off 1.1% and Citigroup  traded up 0.2%. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  fell 0.8% and Wells Fargo & Co.  shed 0.2%. The shares of the four largest U.S. banks accounted for more than 1 billion shares that traded hands during the day on the fourth-largest volume trading day ever for NYSE-listed stocks. Shares of the four companies lost between 9% to 20% in the regular session. After the end of the regular session, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said that its downgrade last week of the U.S.’s sovereign rating will not have an immediate impact on its ratings on U.S. banks. “None of the banks we rate in the U.S. has an issuer credit rating higher than the U.S. sovereign rating. The sovereign downgrade does not alter the government support assumptions that we factor into our ratings on four banks,” S&P; said in a statement. U.S. stocks broadly took a beating Monday during the first trading session after Standard & Poor’s late Friday stripped the U.S. of its triple-A credit rating, lowering it to AA+. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed down 635 points, or 5.6%, at 10,809.85. The S&P; 500 Index   fell 6.7% to 1,119.46 and the Nasdaq Composite Index  dropped 6.9% to 2,358. 
Strong gains for Hewlett-Packard Co. helped tech stocks maintain positive gains by the close of trading on Friday, as the sector shook off some earlier weakness on another volatile trading day. A midday uptick in the broader market that pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average  up more than 125 points by the closing bell also helped boost tech shares. That was a turn from earlier weakness that followed the release of negative consumer sentiment data for the month. The Nasdaq Composite Index  was up 0.6% to 2,508 by the close, while the Morgan Stanley High-Tech Index  picked up 0.8%. However, one notable turn was Nvidia Corp.   The chip-maker had opened the session with strong gains following a positive earnings report the previous afternoon. But several Wall Street analysts urged caution on the shares, noting that the company still faces strong competition that may crimp growth in future periods. Nvidia shares closed down nearly 4% to $12.88. The stock was up more than 10% at the start of the session. “Our concern is that Nvidia has chosen to be aggressive with guidance rather than to reset expectations as most semi companies have done, and we would have found it easier to be more constructive had it done so,” Chris Caso of Susquehanna wrote in a note to clients. Nvidia’s weakness hurt others in the chip sector, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index was down 0.4% by the close as a result. Intel  , Micron  and SanDisk   were all in the red. Hewlett-Packard  rose about 3.7% to $32.20 after Jefferies & Co. upgraded the tech giant to a buy rating. In a note to clients, analyst Peter Misek wrote that he believes H-P is “well positioned for the transition to the cloud and risks are priced in,” with the stock trading at only 5 times his earnings estimate for the 2012 fiscal year. “H-P faces 4-6 quarters of investment in tablets and cloud services to offset the cannibalization of PCs, servers, and services; however, we believe H-P’s 3-year forward margins will be above where they are today (in contrast to Dell), as we believe H-P is one of a handful of players that has or is close to having the components of a full stack,” Misek wrote. Both H-P and Dell  are slated to report results for the July quarter next week. Some software makers remained under pressure late in the day after RBC Capital Markets downgraded several big names in the group, including Oracle  and Adobe Analyst Robert Breza cited concerns about “reduced Federal spending, a weakening European market (traditionally weak in the September quarter for software), the potential for reduced or flat CapEx budgets and operating margin pressure.” 
U.S. stocks on Monday climbed for a third session -- to chalk up a gain of a more than 7% during the longest winning run in weeks -- as relative calmness reigned and investors embraced Google Inc.’s $12.5 billion play for Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. “Clearly, just psychologically the market is exhausted after the two and a half weeks we’ve had, and today is more of a response to no calamity over the weekend,” said Jay Suskind, a senior vice president at Duncan-Williams Inc. “The market took a step back and said, okay we’ve had this correction, let’s let cooler heads prevail,” Suskind added. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 213.88 points, or 1.9%, to close at 11,482.90, with Bank of America Corp.  shares leading gains on the blue-chip benchmark that included all of its 30 components. On Friday the Dow industrials tallied its first two-day gain in a month, and the higher finish on Monday marked its longest streak of gains since a five-session run ending July 1. The index has seen a total gain of 7.1% over the last three trading sessions. Bank of America shares rose 7.9% after the company said it would sell its credit-card business in Canada to TD Bank Group    and exit the card business in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The S&P; 500 Index  also gained for a third session, marking its longest winning run since a five-session streak ending July 1. The index rose 25.68 points, or 2.2%, to end at 1,204.49, with utilities and energy faring best among its 10 industry groups. It’s up 7.5% over the last three trading days. The Nasdaq Composite Index  climbed 47.22 points, or 1.9%, to close at 2,555.20. It has tallied a three-session gain of 7.3%. For every stock falling, more than 10 gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.1 billion shares had traded by the close of the session. The day’s M&A; action bolstered sentiment, as did a report from Japan that the nation’s economy had fared better than anticipated after the March earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis. Google’s  deal to buy Motorola Mobility , the phone-hardware business spinoff, marked the search giant’s largest acquisition to date, and is an effort to bolster the Android mobile software. and . “The merger between Motorola and Google makes sense as Google goes head-to-head with Apple,” said Darren Hayes, a professor at Pace University. “Google knows that future success and profitability will be in the smartphone arena.“ Time Warner Cable Inc.  said it would acquire cable operator Insight Communications for $3 billion, and Transocean Ltd.   said it would pay $1.4 billion for Aker Drilling to bolster its presence in Norway. Stocks overcame economic reports showcasing continued stress on the economy. Manufacturers in the New York region expressed more pessimism about what’s ahead, and confidence among U.S. home builders stood unchanged at very low levels in August. and Stocks’ ability to extend their recent rebound may hinge on an upcoming batch of earnings. “We may see some reaction to second-quarter earnings reports coming from the nation’s retailers over the next two weeks, as some analysts refine 2012 earnings estimates in light of the Fed’s new tepid outlook for the U.S. economy,” said Fred Dickson, chief investment strategist at Davidson Cos. On Tuesday, investors can expect results from retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.   and Home Depot Inc.   Of the 460 companies that have reported quarterly earnings so far, 322, or 70%, beat estimates; 40, or 9%, have matched; and 98, or 21%, have missed, according to a rundown by Standard & Poor’s and Capital IQ. Among industry groups, technology leads in terms of companies beating estimates, with 83% topping expectations, while consumer discretionary fared second best at 77%. Monday’s gains in equities follow a wild week that had the Dow industrials making triple-digit moves each day, and losing 1.5% for the week, its third weekly decline. Putting a potential positive spin on recent “gut-wrenching price declines,” Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, noted that while the S&P; 500 fell 7.2% in the week ending Aug. 5, in the 39 other times since 1950 that the market fell by 5% or more in a single week, the index was higher a year later by an average 18.5% and posted an advance 77% of the time. 
Stocks are acting as they should following the third-steepest nine-day descent in at least the last 49 years. A bounce is to be expected following such a move and a bounce is what the market has delivered. The bounce says zero about whether or not the Aug. 9 intraday lows in the averages will be taken out. By definition, a trend-following strategy such as the one followed by this column follows a trend. In other words, predicting/guessing when a new trend will begin is not part of the modus operandi. Waiting for a trend to be in place is. Aiming for the meat of an intermediate-term advance is the target. Ignoring the first few days or, depending upon the extent of the prior decline, the first few weeks, off of a low may be considered a form of insurance policy. The policy protects against entering the market too soon. The premium, or cost of the policy, is the cost of missing out on an entry on the first day up in the averages, should the move blossom into a legitimate advance over the next months. Following a decline of at least 8%-12% in the averages, it is instructive to assess the breadth, volume, and leadership of the subsequent advance. Volume, a measure of demand for stock amid rising quotations, dimmed Monday for the fifth day in a row. Instead of being interpreted as a negative, this should be taken as normal for a market that just went through one of the greatest selling climaxes of the modern era. Seeing increased volume come into the market on up days in price will be a sign that large investors are re-engaging this market. Based upon the below chart, the breadth of the market, i.e. the behavior of the average stock, improves with the averages. The chart shows that whereas only 7% of NYSE issues were in long-term uptrends two days before the low close in the Dow Industrials  (above their 200-day moving average), twice as many names (14%) were in long-term uptrends two days later when the barometer printed its low close. Leadership for the first two days of this advance resided in defensive shares. These have continued to rise, but have lagged the averages for three days in a row. What this column is most interested in when it comes to leadership, however, is growth stock leadership. This can be categorized into two groups: the liquid glamour stocks, such as Apple  , Bidu  , and Amazon.com  , among others; and also the speculative glamours. The latter are younger companies that are in an emerging growth phase compared with the institutionally-dominated liquid glamours. The speculative glamours are going to see their membership ranks change from one cycle to the next, as some newer names emerge as leaders, while others fall by the wayside. Monitoring the behavior of growth stocks provides two benefits. One is a window into the market’s speculative sentiment, which facilitates general market analysis. The second benefit is that leading growth stocks provide superb vehicles with which an aggressive speculator can play the game. We have many times discussed the “broken eggs and tennis balls” concept. After an intermediate-term 8%-12% correction in quotations, or greater, the names that act like tennis balls in their ability to bounce right back to new price highs are normally the leaders on the ensuing advance. The ones that sit there barely able to move off their price lows, the ones that act like broken eggs, are generally not going to be the dynamic leaders on the next advance. It is to be noted, however, that simply buying the first merchandise that moves into new-high ground is not necessarily the optimal choice. Many times the stocks doing this have a V-shaped pattern to their price charts, which usually does not allow for a healthy cleanout of the bulls, which is the very purpose of a correction. Lululemon Athletica   is one such example of a stock with a V-shaped price pattern. The better actors in the growth segment include Hansen Natural  , Apple, and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters  . But it is not a time to be buying anything if one’s investment program is oriented around the medium-term trend (several weeks to several months). In addition to breadth, volume, and leadership, there should be a test of the initial low. As mentioned last week, this should see price revisit the vicinity of the initial low (Aug. 9) on less volume and fewer 52-week lows than the prior low. In summation, a sold-out market stages a to-be-expected bounce on dwindling volume. Most growth stocks do not show leadership credentials, and are in need of technical repair. Large investors need to show they are ready to return to the feeding trough in size before an effective speculation campaign can be initiated. Until then, cash remains king. Charts created using TradeStation. ©TradeStation Technologies, 2001-2011. All rights reserved. All mutual fund ownership and earnings estimate data provided by Thomson Reuters. At the time of this writing, of the stocks mentioned in this report, Kevin Marder or an affiliate thereof held no positions, though positions are subject to change at any time and without notice. 
The stock market has recently endured more swings than a Hedonism vacation. In the fifteen sessions that ended last Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 11% or 1,418 points in three short weeks — and that was after a 7% rally off the mid-week lows. Within those 15 sessions, the swings were even more violent; over 5,000 DJIA points traded hands in those three weeks, or almost half the value of the entire index. During that stretch, upwards of $6.8 trillion of global equity market value evaporated, the S&P; downgraded U.S. debt for the first time in history, Europe’s credit crisis deepened, and social mood continued to sour. In short, financial markets have been far from normal and anything but fun. While fumbling around on my Bloomberg terminal over the weekend — when I should have been playing with my newborn daughter, Ruby — I pulled up a chart that told us everything we needed to know. The S&P; had been stuck in a sideways range between 1250 and 1350 for the entirety of 2011 — despite all the artificial stimuli—until the government pulled the plug on QE2 at the end of June. From there, we don’t need 20 years of experience to sniff out what the downside catalyst was. One of the culprits recently fingered in the sudden slippage was high- frequency trading, which increased three-fold during the meat of the summer heat. While on Bloomberg TV last week, I offered that high-frequency trading and low-frequency politicians don’t mix, but if we pulled the plug on this modern-day “program trading” (which many believe was the catalyst for the 1987 stock market crash), more than 70% of the daily liquidity would disappear, and that could be a disastrous “solution.” I’ve been bearish for the better part of the last decade, which happened to be the worst 10-year span in the history of financial markets, save a few situations when I believed we were due for a sharp, counter-trend rally (full disclosure: I was bullish in March 2009 but pulled in my horns way too early). My bearish bent hasn’t been a particularly pleasant posture to share but many, if not most of the prognostications we proffered proved true. That was then and this is now so the obvious question is therefore: Where do we go from here? 
This probably won’t be popular, but we think last week’s lows may well have been a bottom. We base this conclusion on the work of Professor Jeremy Siegel of the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, author of the classic book, “Stocks For the Long-Run.” (Note: Siegel should not be blamed for the conclusions we draw from his data.) Siegel’s most famous finding: Counting capital gains and dividends together, and adjusting for inflation, stocks have accumulated on average in real terms at a remarkably consistent 7% or so over the past 210 years. Shown on a log scale, this consistent trend appears as an impressive upward-slanting straight line. We first illustrated this upward-slanting straight line in April 16, 2003, column. The reason for our present conclusion: for more than two centuries, stocks have fluctuated around that long-run trend in a fairly defined channel. Bull-market peaks are generally some 80% above trend. In 1999, Siegel’s broad stock measure reached 86.4% above trend. Conversely, bear-market lows are some 40% below trend. After the Crash of 2008, we calculated that stocks had reached comparable lows. and This was not a popular conclusion. But stocks did rebound. We last looked at Siegel’s data in early 2010. Despite the 2009 rebound, stocks were still 27.9% below trend. We concluded that stocks had more upside potential than downside risk. And stocks did get higher, but then came July’s break. We now calculate that as of the Aug. 8 low, stocks were 35.2% below trend. (We use the S&P; 500  as a proxy for Siegel’s broad measure of stocks: the Dow Jones Industrial Average  made its low on Aug. 10). Our conclusion: stocks could certainly go lower. A full 40% below trend would be around 9,000 on the Dow. Or stocks could move sideways, which would eventually amount to the same thing relative to that trend line, because of its relentless compounding. But stocks won’t stay down. They are not massively overvalued. Upside potential now substantially outweighs downside risk. Note carefully: These relationships are very approximate. Over the longer term, however, they prevail. Thus, when we first started following Siegel’s work, in the 1990s, stocks were far above trend, approaching levels associated with market tops. We concluded, therefore, that the market was overvalued. And apparently it was, but it took years to break. In our early MarketWatch columns, we pointed out that, despite the 2000-2002 crash, stocks had never gotten anywhere close to the levels associated with historic lows. We concluded that stocks had more downside risk than upside potential. But they stooged along sideways for years and even managed a blow-off before finally tanking. Eventually, however, stocks did tank. And now, eventually, stocks will go up. Edwin S. Rubenstein is president of in Indianapolis 
U.S. stock futures slumped on Thursday, as fears over global growth prospects and Europe’s ongoing sovereign-debt woes weighed on equity markets around the world. Stock-index futures furthered their fall after economic data had new U.S. claims for jobless benefits rising more than expected last week, and consumer prices up 0.5% in July. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 224 points to 11,157.00. Standard & Poor’s 500 index futures  dropped 27 points to 1,162.90, while Nasdaq 100 futures  lost 48.25 points to 2,127. After bouncing back last week on the heels of short-selling bans in Europe, equities have seen renewed pressure on concerns about slowing global growth and that European leaders haven’t yet managed to fence in the euro zone’s sovereign problems, said Michael Hewson, market analyst at CMC Markets in London. While it’s difficult to pinpoint a single catalyst behind the current bout of selling pressure, the weakness appears in part to be a delayed reaction to the failure of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy to come up with concrete proposals to address the region’s debt problems at a meeting earlier this week, he said. “I think the realization is that [officials] don’t really have a clue,” Hewson said. As a result, investors appear to be rotating out of cyclical equities into safe havens, such as gold, he said. The Wall Street Journal on Thursday reported that the Federal Reserve and state regulators are intensifying their oversight of U.S. subsidiaries of Europe’s biggest banks to measure how vulnerable the divisions are to increased financial pressures. Officials are worried the euro-zone’s debt crisis could impair the banks’ ability to fund loans and meet other obligations in the United States. Shares likely to be in the spotlight Thursday include NetApp Inc. , which reported a first-quarter profit after Wednesday’s close that fell short of forecasts. JDS Uniphase Corp.  late Wednesday issued a lower-than-expected outlook for revenues. Sears Holdings Corp. , parent of the Sears and K-Mart department-store chains, on Thursday said its second-quarter loss widened on a 1.2% drop in sales. After Thursday’s close, investors will take a close look at results from computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co.  , particularly after a disappointing outlook from rival Dell Inc.  was credited with pressuring stocks on Wednesday. European stocks saw heavy pressure, tracking losses in Asian markets amid worries over stalling global growth. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  fell 1.3% to close at its lowest level since March 15. Nymex crude-oil futures  dropped $2.54 to trade at $85.04 a barrel, while gold futures  rose $26.10 to $1,819.00 an ounce. Wall Street saw a mixed finish on Wednesday, with the S&P; 500  and the Dow industrials  posting mild gains, while Dell’s travails contributed to a negative finish for the Nasdaq Composite Index . 
Factory activity in the Philadelphia region weakened sharply in August to the lowest level seen in more than two years, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said Thursday, adding to fears that the economy has ground to a halt. The Philly Fed’s business outlook survey fell to negative 30.7 in August from 3.2 in July. This is the lowest reading since March 2009. Readings below zero indicate contraction in the region’s factories. The size of the decline in the index stunned analysts — economists had expected a reading of 0.5 in August, according to a survey conducted by MarketWatch — and added fuel to Thursday’s rout in the stock market. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  was recently down 457 points or 4% to 10,953, as investors fled stocks in the wake of a handful of poor or lackluster economic reports. The Philly Fed index may have had the greatest impact on investors. It’s closely watched by economists and traders for clues it might shed about the national manufacturing sector. It is one of the first indicators released for August. Another early look at manufacturing in August, the New York Fed’s Empire State manufacturing survey, was also weak. The survey fell to a reading of negative 7.7, the third straight negative monthly reading. Economists note that the Philly Fed is a sentiment barometer. They also pay close attention to the components of the report because the headline is its own separate question. In August, all of the details were also weak. The new orders index plunged to negative 26.8 from 0.1. The unfilled orders index worsened to negative 20.9 from negative 16.3. The shipments index fell to negative 13.9 from 4.3. The employment index dropped to negative 5.2 from 8.9. In light of the slowdown in activity, inflationary pressures eased. The prices paid index dropped to 12.8 from 25.1, while the prices received index fell to negative 9.0 from 1.1 in July. In another economic report released Thursday, the Labor Department said first-time jobless claims rose 9,000 to 408,000 in the latest week. Headline consumer-price inflation rose 0.5% in July, data showed, while core prices, excluding food and energy prices, rose 0.2%. In addition, sales of existing homes fell 3.5% in July to an eight-month low, according to the National Association of Realtors. 
Retail-sector stocks traded higher Friday as several retailers’ earnings and comments showed consumers still have a penchant to spend even against a downbeat macroeconomic backdrop. The S&P; Retail Index  rose 0.1% to 472.63, paring back some of its earlier gain. But it still outperformed against the declines in both the S&P; 500 Index  and the Dow Jones Industrial Average . “Yes, the economy in the U.S. has been a little lumpy in the last six months,” said Glenn Murphy, chief executive of Gap Inc. , on a conference call late Thursday. ”But here’s what I tell everybody internally, and I mean it: There’s business out there. I look at other retailers, other brands — not everybody, but certain ones that I watch closely — and there’s business out there.” For instance, Gap has struggled to turn around lower demand at its U.S. namesake chain. But a miss in women’s apparel assortment was the culprit, while the merchandise for men, baby and kids saw comparable sales gains in the second quarter. “It’s our women’s business that’s a drag on the total company’s performance,” Murphy said. “We need to get better right away in our women’s product.” Consumers have consolidated their shopping trips in the face of higher gasoline prices, he said. That’s benefited retailers, such as department store operator Macy’s Inc.  and discounter Target Corp. , that have broader product assortments. They’ve each outperformed the Gap and Old Navy brands, respectively, he said. “I would say the people who are getting the traffic right now are probably benefiting by the multiple categories that they offer, and they are taking share,” said Murphy. Gap’s shares rose 3.1% after it affirmed its full-year outlook, which analysts said is viewed positively in an environment where retailers have been increasingly cautious about their second-half outlooks in light of market uncertainty. While the economic concerns have raised worries that women may cut back on buying for themselves first and therefore hurting retailers selling clothing to them, some results on Friday told more of a mixed tale. Shares of Ann Inc. , parent of the Ann Taylor and Loft chains, shot up 13% after its second-quarter profit and sales both exceeded estimates. Comparable store sales rose 8.6%, including a 5.3% increase for Ann Taylor and an 11% gain for Loft. Its third-quarter and full-year sales forecasts also topped Wall Street expectations. The company projected wider gross margin in the second half even in the face of higher cost pressures facing the industry. “Our clients are responding to new fashion,” said Chief Executive Kay Krill on a conference call, adding that new merchandise such as orange skirts have basically sold out. Customers also liked new red dresses, red pants and new proportions in sweaters and knits at the Ann Taylor chain. 
Crude-oil futures settled higher Tuesday, extending their gains to a second session on a triple-digit rise for U.S. equities and a lower dollar. Crude oil for October delivery , the new front-month contract, added $1.02, or 1.2%, to $85.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It ended near its session highs after a weak start of floor trading. So far this month, oil is down 11%. Brent crude also traded higher, with the blend’s October contract up 95 cents, or 0.9%, to $109.31 a barrel on ICE Futures in London. Earlier, both benchmarks fluctuated between small gains and losses. Oil markets were debating whether “prices belong at current levels. ... The background macroeconomic picture continues to trend bearish,” said Tim Evans, an oil analyst with Citigroup’s Citi Futures Perspective in New York. The day’s batch of macroeconomic reports was mixed. China’s August purchasing managers index rose to 49.8 from 49.3 in July, which was viewed by some as a positive development. It signaled a second month of a contraction in China and adds to concerns about the European and U.S. economies, Evans said. The German manufacturing PMI for August was unchanged from July at 52 and beat the 50.8 consensus forecast. The euro zone’s PMI for the manufacturing sector fell to 49.7 from 50.4 in July, but this came in above forecasts for a reading of 49.5. August’s composite PMI index for the euro zone was 51.1 — unchanged from a 22-month low in July, but better than the 50.3 consensus forecast. Closer to home, the Richmond Fed said Tuesday that its manufacturing index slumped to a negative 10 in August from negative 1 in July, as shipments and new orders declined sharply. The dollar index , which compares the U.S. unit to a basket of six currencies, traded at 73.837, down from 74.063 in North American trade late Monday. Stocks rose for the second day on Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  recently up 2.6%. Meanwhile, fighting for control of Libya’s capital, Tripoli, raged on Tuesday. The Brent market was under pressure Monday from expectations the four-decade-old regime of Col. Moammar Gadhafi was coming to an end, which would mean at least some of the sweet, light Libyan oil back on line. 
Bank of America Corp. shares were left behind Tuesday as financial stocks closed higher as the broader market staged a rebound. Shares of Dow component Bank of America  closed down 1.9% at $6.30 after touching a 52-week low of $6.01 earlier in the session. The Wall Street Journal’s Market Beat blog also said on Tuesday morning that the bank’s five-year credit-default swaps were trading at a spread approaching 4 full percentage points. “Bank of America’s five-year CDS spread, meanwhile, is pushing to 400 basis points, a record high. In other words, higher than the levels it hit during the financial crisis,” the blog reported. The Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF  , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500 , closed up 3.2%. The Philadelphia KBW Bank index , which tracks the leading 24 banks, rose 4%. Earlier in the session, the indicators were trading in the red. Of the other financial components on the Dow Jones Industrial Average , J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. closed up 4%, American Express Co.  rose 4.1% and Travelers Cos.  advanced 0.5%. Citigroup Inc.   shares also rose 4.8%. Other big movers with gains of 5% or more on the day were Ameriprise Financial Inc. , Charles Schwab Corp. , Fifth Third Bancorp. , U.S. Bancorp  , Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , Moody’s Corp. and NYSE Euronext . 
U.S. stocks on Wednesday rose for a third day, positioning Wall Street for what could be its first winning week in five, after a rise in durable-goods orders bolstered sentiment. “There have been a couple of economic reports over the last two days, with China, the manufacturing company for the world, reporting a slightly better number, and today, we had durable goods to turn the market’s sour mood upside down,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott. “It’s a natural rebound from oversold conditions,” added Luschini of this week’s advance, which follows a four-week drop that left the Dow industrials down nearly 15% and the S&P; 500 off more than 16%. After its best two-session performance since the period ended Aug. 12, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  on Wednesday advanced 143.95 points, or 1.3%, to 11,320.71. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 15.25 points, or 1.3%, to 1,177.60, with financials the best performer of its 10 sectors. The Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 21.63 points, or 0.9%, to 2,467.69. For every stock that fell nearly two gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume surpassed 1.1 billion; composite volume topped 4.6 billion. “All that glitters is not gold today,” Brian Greenberg, owner of wealth management firm Brian Greenberg & Associates, said of bullion’s worst single-day hit since March 2008. Gold futures   plunged $104, or 5.6%, to close at $1,757.30 an ounce, while crude-oil futures   fell 28 cents to end at $85.16 a barrel in New York. The Commerce Department reported orders for manufactured goods meant to last three or more years climbed 4% in July from an upwardly revised 1.3% fall the prior month. The increase came on robust demand for aircraft and motor vehicles. Analysts said the manufacturing data bolstered arguments that, while sluggish, the economy is not headed into another recession. Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG LLC, was among those noting a decline in gauges measuring confidence, as opposed to more positive findings in concrete data. “While ‘soft’ data such as sentiment has worsened in August, ‘hard’ data such as retail sales and now durable goods have not deteriorated nearly as much and in some cases, including today’s durable goods report, were actually positive and better than expected,” Greenhaus said. The Federal Housing Finance Agency index released Wednesday had U.S. home prices rising 0.9% in June, but still off 4.3% in the past year. “We have the ‘Sermon on the Mount’ forthcoming on Friday,” said Luschini, tongue in cheek, of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke’s scheduled speech Friday to a gathering of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Bernanke is “not going to make any kind of policy announcement outside the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee),” said Luschini, who notes that European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet is slated to speak immediately after the Fed chairman, so “unless they agreed on what they are both going to say, that would be a huge shock. The European Parliament on Wednesday confirmed a Monday hearing “on sovereign debt and banking concerns,” said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. 
Financial stocks led a market rally Monday as insurance companies benefited from limited damage from Hurricane Irene and Bank of America Corp. said it plans to sell 13.1 billion shares of China Construction Bank. Shares of Bank of America  closed up 8.1% following the move that will further bolster capital on the bank’s balance sheet, an issue that’s been dogging it all summer. The deal, slated to close in the third quarter, is expected to raise $8.3 billion in cash. Bank of America will retain a 5% stake in the Chinese bank  after the transaction. “This sale of approximately half of our shares of CCB stock is expected to generate about $3.5 billion in additional Tier 1 common capital and reduce our risk-weighted assets by $7.3 billion under Basel I,” said Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson in a statement. Better yet, the Chinese bank stock sale, which many investors had figured would eventually happen, follows on the $5 billion investment Bank of America got from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway    on Thursday. This is calming jittery investors who had been selling Bank of America’s stock in droves from the end of July through mid-August. Shares of the Dow component have risen 40% since Tuesday, when they hit a 52-week low of $6.01. The financial sector was the top industry gainer on the S&P; 500 . The Financial Select SPDR ETF , which tracks financial companies on the S&P;, advanced 4.2% to close at 13.30. The KBW Bank Index  , which consists of the nation’s 24 leading banks, moved up 4.5%. Along with Bank of America, another strong financial stock on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  was insurer Travelers Inc. with shares closing up 5.1%. The two other financial stocks on the Dow — J.P. Morgan Chase and American Express Co.  — also traded higher. After Hurricane Irene passed over the East Coast with less damage than anticipated, insurers turned out to be one of the strongest subsectors on the S&P; 500, with half of the companies in the subsector closing up more than 5%. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  led the charge with shares closing up 13%. Shares of Lincoln National Corp. , Allstate Corp.  , Genworth Financial Inc. , American International Group Inc. , XL Group PLC  , Principal Financial Inc.  , Assurant Inc., MetLife Inc.  and Prudential Financial Inc.  all closing up 5% or higher. Other notable gainers on the day included Janus Capital Group Inc.  and Regions Financial Corp. , with respective shares closing up more than 8%. Citigroup Inc.  shares rose nearly 5%, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  gained 3.9%, and Wells Fargo  rose 3.4%. 
The sentiment stars are aligned nicely in favor of the stock market’s rally continuing at least a while longer. That’s because, despite an impressive rally over the last two weeks, the average adviser remains profoundly skeptical that the advance will continue. That’s a bullish sign, according to contrarian analysis. Consider the average recommended equity exposure among the short-term market timers tracked by the Hulbert Financial Digest (as measured by the Hulbert Stock Newsletter Sentiment Index, or HSNSI). On Aug. 10, the day of this summer’s closing low, this average stood at minus 16.6%, which meant that the average short-term timer was at that time recommending to clients to allocate a sixth of their equity portfolios to going short. Despite a rally that has seen the Dow Jones Industrial Average   gain 7.6% and the S&P; 500 index   gain 8.0%, the HSNSI has risen only slightly — and still remains below 0. In fact, its latest reading is minus 7.5%, only 9.1 percentage points higher than at the Aug. 10 closing low. Indeed, the HSNSI is currently at precisely the same level it was on Aug. 19, when I last devoted a column to a contrarian analysis of the market — even though the Dow is 5% higher now than then. This refusal to become more bullish on the part of the average short-term market timer has led me to change my mind about what the sentiment data are saying. ( ) One of the reasons I changed my mind was an econometric analysis I conducted of how much of an increase in the HSNSI we should have expected, given a Dow gain of 7.6% over 13 trading sessions (which is the number of trading days from the Aug. 10 low through Monday’s close). Based on a regression analysis of the last decade’s values for my sentiment index, we would have otherwise expected the HSNSI to have risen by 49 percentage points — or five times greater than what we actually have seen. This marked spread between the actual HSNSI increase and what we would otherwise have expected is an indication of just how skeptical the market timing community is of this rally. It is almost the mirror opposite of the sentiment situation that prevailed earlier this year when, despite a marked decline in the market, the HSNSI remained stubbornly high. To put the contrast from before another way: Instead of the slope of hope that prevailed then, we now have a wall of worry. Unfortunately, contrarian analysis offers little guidance on how much longer the rally will last, or how much higher the market will go. The key to the rally’s longevity, from a sentiment point of view, will be how the market timers react in coming days and weeks. If they continue to be stubbornly bearish in the face of the rally, then contrarians would expect the rally to keep going. If, in contrast, the market timers quickly jump on the bullish bandwagon in coming sessions, then the rally would quickly lose contrarian support. Anything’s possible, of course, in this fast-paced market. For the moment, however, it certainly looks as though the breathtaking market drops earlier this month, coupled with the extraordinary subsequent volatility, have created a wall of worry that is robust enough to not crumble anytime soon. 
U.S. stock futures rose on Wednesday as August drew to a close, with overseas gains providing support even after data on the labor market came in a bit shy of expectations. Stock-index futures added to their gains after payroll-processor ADP reported the private sector added 91,000 jobs this month. While slightly less than estimated, the data were still a welcome development, given the level of nervousness that persists around August data, said analysts at BTIG Economics. “With the decline in the stock market, debate in Washington and downgrade to the U.S. credit rating, it very much could have been worse,” the BTIG analysts wrote in an email. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 97 points to 11,589, while those on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  added 11.80 points to 1,216.60. Futures on the Nasdaq 100  rose 19.50 points to 2,246.50. Wall Street just managed a positive close on Tuesday after a late selloff. The market rallied at one point after the release of minutes from the Aug. 9 Federal Open Market Committee meeting that hinted of possible Fed action to boost the U.S. economy. The Dow  rose 20.70 points to 11,559.95 in a choppy session on Tuesday that briefly saw the blue-chip index stray into positive territory for the year. “Our economists still believe that maturity extension is the most likely next step for the Fed, but unless we see an extreme deterioration in economic data in the next three weeks they do not believe this will be implemented at the September meeting,” said Jim Reid, strategist at Deutsche Bank, in a note. He said November would be more likely as it would give FOMC members time to further assess the economy. Other data on tap for Wednesday include the Chicago purchasing managers index for August at 9:45 a.m. and factory orders for July at 10 a.m. All times are Eastern. On the corporate front, shares of DryShips Inc.  fell over 10% in premarket trade after the company swung to a second-quarter net loss of $114.1 million from profit of $19.5 million in the year-ago period. Shares of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc.  fell in premarket action after the firm reported fiscal second-quarter net income of 74 cents a share, a 25% gain compared to the year-earlier period, but that fell short of expectations. Sales rose 22%. Joy Global Inc.  lifted its outlook for the year after reporting a 46% rise in fiscal third-quarter profit. Also, Cameron International Corp.  will buy the LeTourneau Technologies Inc. drilling products unit from Joy Global for $375 million in cash. AT&T; Inc.  shares could be in focus after the telecom group said it will return 5,000 outsourced wireless call-center jobs back to the U.S. if regulators approve its $39 billion deal to buy T-Mobile USA, owned by Deutsche Telekom AG  . Shares of Lionsgate Entertainment Corp.  could be active after the company said late Tuesday that billionaire Carl Icahn and his son Brett Icahn will sell their 44.2 million shares in the company. Clorox Co.  late Tuesday rejected a bid from Carl Icahn, saying it “substantially undervalues the company and is not credible.” Shares of PVH Corp.  could also move after the company lifted its yearly forecast late Tuesday. Stocks in Europe were firmly in the black, with the Stoxx Europe 600 index  up 1.4%. Asian stocks closed out August on a mostly upbeat note, with the Hang Seng Index gaining sharply. Gold for December delivery   rose $2.90 to $1,832.70 an ounce in electronic trading on Globex. Crude oil futures for October delivery   slipped 74 cents to $88.16 a barrel. The U.S. dollar was little changed against its major rivals. 
Volatile times on Wall Street spilled over into showrooms in August, with many shoppers apparently opting to push back their new-car purchases until the economic dust settles. Car makers will show just how much all the uncertainty has affected their businesses when they report their monthly tallies on Thursday. By most accounts, the numbers are expected to show an industry that is struggling to keep up with forecasts of a steady recovery this year. TrueCar.com analyst Jesse Toprak said that despite some positive strides, nasty stock market swings are keeping demand in check. “Sales have improved compared to last year, but nowhere near the potential we had expected,” he said. “The strongest correlation to new car sales is the Dow Jones Industrial Average , and it was shaky and nervous in August.” That’s putting it mildly. In one four-day stretch alone in the middle of the month, the blue-chip index moved at least 400 points in either direction. The Dow is down almost 5% in the past 30 days. As far as overall sales, Toprak is looking for the industry to show an 8% improvement from a year ago, with gains of at least 20% from Chrysler, General Motors Co.  and Hyundai leading the way. He said he sees Toyota Motor Corp.  and Honda Motor Co.  still battling to get back on track, with declines of 14% and 25%, respectively. Paul Ballew, chief economist for Nationwide and former sales analyst for GM, said that looking ahead the group can no longer place the blame for the slow pace of recovery solely on availability. “The sector has its inventory woes largely resolved, so a pace below 12 million on a seasonally adjusted [SAAR] basis will add some additional caution to how the third quarter is shaping up,” he warned. Edmunds.com Chief Economist Lacey Plache, not quite as pessimistic, said she expects to see a SAAR of 12.3 million, virtually flat with July even as the stock market continued its wild ride. “Stronger buying conditions are telling consumers to go ahead and make their car purchases, but a weak economic landscape is telling them to wait until later this year, or even longer,” she said. “This is the battle that will determine exactly how much the auto industry will grow this year.” She said that Ford Motor Co. is the only auto maker poised for a decline from last month, though its sales still probably rose almost 10% from a year ago. 
U.S. financial stocks rallied more than 1% on Wednesday, but they closed out August with an almost 10% drop after several of the biggest banks fell by double digits for the month. The Financial Select Sector SPDR , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500 Index , rose 1.3% On Monday. For the month, it was off just shy of 10%. Among the financial stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , Travelers Cos.  rose 0.5% Wednesday but fell 8.5% in August. American Express Co.  rose 2.2% for the day but shed 0.6% for the month. The two banks in the Dow — J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  and Bank of America Corp.  — also rose Wednesday, but fell 7% and 15.9%, respectively, in August. E-Trade Financial Corp.  rose 7% Wednesday. Sandler O’Neill analysts Rich Repetto told clients in a note Wednesday that daily average-revenue trades, or DARTs, in the electronic retail-investor market are up 40% in August from July. “Based on our final August retail proxies, August DARTs for several e-brokers should set new monthly records. Assuming a 40% sequential increase in DARTs, TD Ameritrade Holding Corp.  should set a new monthly record, while E-Trade and Charles Schwab Corp.  would have their best DARTs since before the May 2010 ‘flash crash,’” Repetto wrote. Accordingly, he said, there could be earnings upside for the e-brokers of “roughly” 4% to 11% per share for the third quarter. Shares of E-Trade fell 22% in August, while Shares of Ameritrade shed 16.5%; Schwab lost 17.3% over the trailing month. Meanwhile, a rally in the regional-banking segment Wednesday also helped drive financial stocks higher, as the KBE Regional Banking ETF  rose almost 2%. For the month, the regional fund is off 11%. Ohio-based Huntington Bancshares , Pittsburgh’s PNC Financial Services Group  and SunTrust Banks Inc.  of Atlanta all turned in healthy gains. Of note, J.P. Morgan rose despite being an adviser to AT&T; Inc. , which was sued Wednesday by the U.S. government in an attempt to block its planned takeover of T-Mobile USA. Greenhill & Co.  did not fare as well. It too is advising AT&T; on the deal, and it fell almost 2%. 
The dollar advanced against major currencies Thursday after a gauge of U.S. manufacturing activity unexpectedly improved while European data disappointed in August. The Institute for Supply Management’s index of purchasing managers slipped 0.3 points to 50.6%, as new orders and production fell, but stayed above the 50% threshold, which indicates an expansion. The data represents the slowest pace of growth since July 2009, but beat expectations for a much weaker reading of 48.8% for August. Still, it failed to impress some economists. “Despite the encouraging headline print, the details of the report were not particularly strong,” said Millan Mulraine, economic strategist at TD Securities, in a note, pointing out that production, employment and new exports orders all slipped on the month. “Demand and activity have been essentially frozen for the past two months. This is unlikely to be a sustainable situation, but for the time being the absence of outright contraction was a relief,” HSBC analyst Ryan Wang wrote to clients in a note. The dollar index , which tracks the U.S. currency against a basket of six rivals, was at 74.50 in late North American trade, compared with 74.162 late Wednesday. The index was trading at 74.460 shortly before the manufacturing data was released. The greenback’s gains came amid data showing that outlays for U.S. construction projects fell 1.3% in July. With the markets awaiting Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls report, the dollar saw relatively little movement after the Labor Department said new applications for unemployment compensation dropped 12,000 to 409,000 in the week ended Aug. 27, but remained at a level associated with slow hiring trends. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch had forecast a decline to 405,000. The White House, meanwhile, estimated in its economic forecasts that President Barack Obama will attempt his re-election with the nation’s unemployment rate at 8.2%. The dollar held its gains even as U.S. stocks couldn’t. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.9% in late afternoon trading, after perking up initially in the wake of the ISM data. Meanwhile, the euro  was changing hands at $1.4270, down from $1.4369 late Wednesday, remaining under pressure after a disappointing sale of new Spanish five-year benchmark government bonds. While borrowing costs fell from a July sale of five-year bonds in the first auction since the European Central Bank began buying Spanish and Italian debt in an effort to bring down yields and halt the spread of the euro-zone debt crisis, analysts termed the outcome a disappointment. “The bad news is that the bond was sold with [an 8 to 9 basis point] premium on the Spanish government bond curve and even with this premium Spain was able to sell only slightly more than the middle of the announced range,” said Chiara Cremonesi, fixed-income strategist at UniCredit Bank in Milan. The euro had been weighed earlier in the global trading day, after the purchasing managers index for the euro-zone manufacturing sector posted a steeper-than-expected August decline, heightening fears the region could slip back into recession. The British pound  traded at $1.6175, down from $1.6247 on Wednesday, but off its intraday low of $1.6134. British PMI data showed manufacturing activity contracted for a second month in August, with the index for the sector falling to a 26-month low. The U.S. dollar was also fetching 76.82 Japanese yen, up from ¥76.58 on Wednesday. “The market continues to find fairly solid support around the major lows around the ¥76.00 area, and while this holds we could well see further gains,” said Michael Hewson, an analyst at CMC Markets. “However, the lack of any rebound in U.S. 10-year bond yields  is limiting the dollar’s upside here.” 
Technology stocks closed lower Tuesday, swept down in a broad market selloff sparked by financial worries in Europe and analyst warnings on the personal computer and software markets. The Nasdaq Composite Index  fell 0.3% to close at 2,474, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 101 points. The Morgan Stanley High Tech 35 Index   slipped 0.8% and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index  lost 0.7%. Shares of Hewlett-Packard Co.  fell 3% to close at $23.63, to become one of the top decliners on the Dow industrials. Dell Inc.  rallied after losses early in the session to close at $14.25, up 0.1%. In a note, J.P. Morgan analyst Mark Moskowitz warned of “sustained weakness” in PC shipments to Europe and the U.S. “Our research indicates that softness manifested in late July and has not abated,” Moskowitz wrote. “Meanwhile, China and Latin America have been bright spots, but these regions are not large enough to counter EMEA and U.S. weakness.” The software sector also took a hit, as shares of Oracle Corp.  fell 1.8% to close at $26.49, while Microsoft Corp.  shed 1.1% to close at $25.51. VMware   rose 0.2% to close at $88.27, while Salesforce.com Inc.  traded down 2.2% to close at $120.93. J.P. Morgan analyst John DiFucci warned of softening demand in the corporate technology market, due to economic worries both in Europe and the U.S. “We believe that corporate IT demand will continue to soften in the European region over the next several quarters, compounded by net negative contribution from U.S. government and financial services,” he wrote. In the telecommunications sector, Sprint Nextel announced that it has filed a lawsuit seeking to block the proposed acquisition of T-Mobile by AT&T.; Shares of Sprint  slid 4.5% to close at $3.37, while AT&T;  fell 0.8% to close at $27.83. On the upside, shares of memory chip makers SanDisk Corp.  and Micron Technology  posted gains. SanDisk rose 1.8% to close at $35.57, while Micron added 3.1% to close at $5.67. In a note, Bernstein Research analyst Mark Newman named the two memory chip makers as among the firms well positioned to gain from the growth of the solid state driver market. 
U.S. stocks tumbled for a third straight session Tuesday, marking the S&P; 500’s worst September start in its five-decade history, on worries related to Europe’s debt crisis. A rush to assets still perceived as safe sent the 10-year Treasury yield to a record low. The Swiss franc, recently a popular alternative to the euro and dollar, fell the most since the formation of the euro after the Swiss central bank capped the exchange rate. The day’s action resulted in the roughest September start for U.S. stocks in years if not decades. Still, the close marked a recovery from session lows. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed down 100.96 points, or 0.9%, at 11,139.3 after sinking as much as 307.73 points. Combined with selloffs Thursday and Friday, the Dow is down 4.1% in three sessions — its worst three-day September start since 2002. The market was closed Monday for the Labor Day holiday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  shed 8.73 points, or 0.7%, to 1,165.24, with financials falling hardest among its major industry groups. Its three-session loss, amounting to 4.4%, was the index’s worst start to September since the index began in 1957. Taking the baton from Friday’s disappointing jobs report, worries about Europe — from concerns Italy would dilute planned austerity measures to disagreements among euro-zone members about bailout packages — set U.S. stocks off on the wrong foot. “In the next year to 18 months, the No. 1 risk that lingers out there is Europe. This could be a Lehman moment,” said Paul Ballew, chief economist at Nationwide, referring to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in the fall of 2008, an event widely seen as a catalyst for the U.S. financial meltdown. The major indexes trimmed their declines after Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota said the U.S. economy was not in need of more stimulus last month and would likely not be in September either. The Nasdaq Composite Index  ended down 6.5 points, or 0.3%, at 2,473.83, also a third straight loss. For every four stocks that rose, 11 fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was about 1.1 billion. Speaking in Minneapolis, Kocherlakota signaled an unwillingness to support additional stimulus even after the government on Friday said the U.S. economy added no jobs in August. “When you get a jobs number like Friday it gets the alarm bells ringing,” said Ballew. That said, “You have to look at all the indicators, and up until employment on Friday most of those indicators were a little better than feared. When you put it all together we’re going to find the third quarter a little stronger than the first half, albeit with a recovery that is struggling to gain momentum.” The day’s sole U.S. economic release, a gauge of the U.S. services sector, showed unexpected improvement in August from the month before, with the Institute for Supply Management’s services index climbing to 53.3 last month from 52.7 in July. “It may shock equity-market participants, but the economic data that has been released for August and July do not yet corroborate the idea that the U.S. is in a recession,” Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG LLC, wrote in reaction to the ISM release. Following a sharp drop in stock-index futures ahead of Wall Street’s start, the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Amex Cash Markets invoked Rule 48 for the open, lifting a requirement calling for price indications that help determine the floor price at the start, to smooth out trade. The Swiss franc fell by the most it ever had against the euro after the Swiss central bank imposed a cap on the currency’s exchange rate. Gold came off a record as investors sold bullion to make up for losses in the Swiss franc. Gold for December delivery  declined $3.60 to finish at $1,873.30 an ounce on the Comex in New York after reaching a record high of $1,923.70. Finance ministers from Germany, Finland and the Netherlands were meeting Tuesday to talk about Finland’s request for collateral in aid for Greece. In Italy, lawmakers were set to debate an austerity proposal as the country’s largest union called a strike. “It could get ugly, the collateral damage could be severe; what is the exposure for banks, how does it impact liquidity, we’re hoping for resolutions as soon as possible,” Ballew added. Concluding a three-month fight for control of Temple-Inland Inc. , International Paper Co.  on Tuesday said it had reached an agreement to acquire the shipping-box maker for $32 a share. Its shares led S&P; 500 gainers, rallying nearly 9%. 
Shares, alternating between a focus on the slowing U.S. economy and the potential for a spread of the Eurozone debt crisis, continued their low-volume slide for the third session Tuesday. Unlike the previous two outings, the Nasdaq Composite  found support right after the open, and trended higher throughout the day, going out near its high. Down-early, up-late is a plus. The final week in August and the first week of September are two of the most-popular vacation periods of the year. Thus, there is no special significance being attached to the light activity of late, which normally would indicate investor uncertainty. The market’s behavior of the past few sessions is not unexpected given the extended nature of its prior advance, in which the averages moved up seven times in eight tries. At this juncture, it is most important that a position trader dispense with any personal bias as to market direction, and simply let the market tell its own story. This column’s 50,000-foot view has been that if the country’s most extensive money creation exercise in recent times has not created substantial jobs growth, take away that stimulus and it is logical to expect economic recession. With that said, this column does not operate on the notion that successful speculation is a function of personal opinion or prediction. The simple reason for this is that price normally discounts the coming six to nine months’ worth of expectations into today’s prices. Therefore, emphasizing the current economic backdrop at the expense of the market’s price/volume behavior ignores the precedent set by decades’ worth of market history. At some point, then, the averages will bottom, if they haven’t already. One thing that is certain is that the bottom will occur amid gloom and widespread disbelief. This is how bull markets are born. The advantage, then, in simply observing the price/volume behavior of the major averages and the action of the leading stocks is that they are normally leading indicators of the economy. Whether a bottom occurred Aug. 9 intraday or will occur months or years from now will not be knowable with absolute certainty until well after the fact. On a relative basis, growth stocks generally perform well during periods of slow economic growth. The current period is hewing to this script: Since Aug. 19, the growth-oriented Nasdaq Composite has risen 5.6% versus the 3% rise of the Dow Jones Industrial Average . Otherwise, recent columns have highlighted certain growth stocks that have been quietly outperforming the averages. Thursday’s report mentioned Zillow  as not being buyable given the lack of support technically within its cup-shaped base, as shown below. It was also mentioned that a pullback of some sort would first need to be seen before a pivot point is established. The stock is now a couple of days into a pullback that has the look of a “handle” to go with its cup. For aggressive speculators, a potential entry might be upon a breakout of the 9/1 high of 37.99, circled in the below chart. Such a breakout should be accompanied by strong volume on the breakout day, ideally at least 40% or 50% above the stock’s average daily volume. Alexion Pharmaceuticals , mentioned in both of last week’s reports, and with earnings estimates of 30%/37% for 2011/2012, according to most analysts, hit a new high Tuesday on volume 38% above average. Technically, the move was a breakout of a mini-cup-with-handle base that had lasted six weeks, as the below chart shows. 
Gold futures settled higher Thursday, taking another stab at $1,900 an ounce, after the European Central Bank cut growth forecasts and U.S. jobless claims edged higher. A much-anticipated speech by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke took some of gold’s shine, as he said inflation, one of the pillars of gold investing, was on its way down. Bernanke also refrained from hinting at any concrete steps toward economic stimulus. Gold for December delivery  gained $39.90, or 2.2%, to settle at $1,857.50 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, snapping a two-day losing streak. The contract traded as high as $1,868.70 an ounce. On Tuesday, the contract set an intraday high of $1,923.70 an ounce, although it ultimately settled in the red. Silver tracked gold higher, with the December contract  up 90 cents, or 2.2%, to $42.53 an ounce. Markets are still operating with safe havens in mind, and gold is benefiting from being one of the few investments considered safer still available, said James Moore, an analyst for Thebulliondesk.com in London. The Swiss central bank earlier this week said it would make unlimited purchases in currency markets to cap the franc’s rise against the euro, reducing the Swiss franc’s appeal as a safe-haven currency. Right about closing time for gold’s floor trading, Bernanke spoke, but his remarks bypassed any clear direction on how or whether more monetary easing was forthcoming. Markets are waiting to hear from President Barack Obama later Thursday. Obama is expected to unveil a $300 billion plan to jump start job creation. The U.S. Labor Department said earlier Thursday applications for unemployment benefits rose to 414,000 last week from 412,000, slightly more than expectations of a rise to 411,000. The four-week average of claims also gained, to the highest level since mid-July. Also Thursday, in a news conference following the ECB’s decision to keep rates on hold at 1.5%, ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said bank officials had cut forecasts for euro-area economic growth, feeding speculation that the central bank may be finished raising interest rates for the year. Weak economic data and the prospects for more fiscal stimulus have driven gold to record highs this year, as investors seek a hedge against falling equities and as some fear potential for inflation and currency devaluation, particularly the U.S. dollar debasement. “Besides the persistent debt problems in euro-zone countries and the threat of the U.S. economy sliding into recession, interest rates are set to remain at a very low level for an extended period,” analysts at Commerzbank wrote in a research note. “In our opinion, the price of gold should therefore remain well supported and it is only a matter of time before new record highs are reached.” U.S. stocks were lower, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  recently down 94 points at 11,318. The broader suite of metals tracked gold higher, with copper the laggard. Copper for December delivery  rose 1 penny, or 0.3%, to $4.14 a pound. Palladium for December delivery  added $12.60, or 1.7%, to $765.30 an ounce. Platinum for October delivery  rose $25.80, or 1.4%, to $1,854.50 an ounce. 
 By , MarketWatch Saying, “I didn’t start the fire, nor fan it” doesn’t help put the fire out. My view: Policy risk is back in the markets mix making overall risk management our top priority. Even if we do get a real jobs speech and plan, there’s the euro zone. And while we noted two weeks back that the more Germany’s chancellor rebuked the idea of signing on for bond issuances to help float Europe’s boat, the more likely she was to back it, and while she did just that last week, questions concerning that quagmire are rightly pinned on the policy makers and policy risks they spawned and engender. If that’s the global storm, where battening down hatches in the form of risk aversion appears to make the most sense, there’s no fundamental evidence for a dramatic curtailment in corporate profits now or down the road. In the end, we know that earnings will drive, not be driven by, the markets. But, we also know that this doesn’t mean we won’t continue to see curtailment in stock prices on the road we’re on. The Dow   and the S&P; 500  closed last year around where we find ourselves at this point, this year. In my view, that means there’s still room for a discomfiting pullback on fear itself – but lastingly, only if earnings are seen to be decelerating fast enough to amplify the fear of a point of no return. I don’t see that happening; but no one can see it happening, yet … the data isn’t there to be seen. 
Technology stocks fell Friday after Texas Instruments Inc.’s warning of weakness in demand spooked the broader market. Wall Street also reacted to President Barack Obama’s jobs plan and the resignation of a European Central Bank Governing Council member. The Nasdaq Composite Index  fell 2.4% to close at 2,468. The benchmark ended the week down 0.5%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  was down 304 points. TI  late Thursday cut its sales and earnings forecasts, citing weak demand across different markets. But TI moved up 1.1% to close at $26.08 as analysts continued to see the chip giant as being well-positioned in an uncertain market, particularly with its heightened focus on its analog chip business. “Stepping back, TI has done a good job of focusing on its analog core, building competitive barriers, and growing scale,” FBR Capital analyst Craig Berger said in a note. Evercore Partners analyst Patrick Wang also said in an e-mail that there’s probably a sense on Wall Street that TI is “bottoming at these levels. He said the company “is also doing a great job managing earnings,” adding, “With a well run business and bottoming fundamentals, it makes sense to start thinking constructively.” Other chip makers were also in positive territory. Marvell Technology  gained 1.9% to close at $13.69. SanDisk  traded up 0.6% to close at $38.73. Baird analyst Tristan Gerra said in a note that, based on his research, “SanDisk is building capacity dedicated to Apple, which should lead the company to gain market share.” Apple  shares slid 1.7% to close at $377.48. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index  lost 1.1%. Highlighting the tech retreat was VeriSign Inc.  , shares of which tumbled 14.4% to close at $29.03 after the infrastructure security software maker announced that Chief Financial Officer Brian Robins had resigned to pursue other opportunities. Shares of Dow components were also in the red. Hewlett-Packard Co.  traded down 5.1% to close at $22.65, while Cisco Systems Inc.  was off 2.9% to close at $15.82 and IBM Corp.  lost 2.4% to close at $161.37. Yahoo Inc.  shares gained 0.3% to close at $14.48. The Wall Street Journal reported Friday, citing unnamed sources, that Yahoo’s independent directors have set up a “strategy and transactions” committee led by board member David Kenny. The company plans to tap investment Allen & Co. to work with the committee and is considering hiring J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. as Yahoo tries to develop a game plan after its board ousted Chief Executive Carol Bartz, the newspaper said. 
U.S. Treasury prices rose Friday, extending weekly gains and pushing yields on the 10-year note back to record lows, as speculation about a possible Greek default drained confidence and led investors to dump stocks. Concerns about Europe “have been coming to a head for a while but now the whole process is spiralling and accelerating... Nobody in Treasurys really wants to go home short, because who knows what’s going to happen this weekend,” said William O’Donnell, strategist at the Royal Bank of Scotland. Treasurys initially traded lower earlier Friday, but quickly reversed direction and accelerated gains on news Juergen Stark, the European Central Bank’s top economist and a member of its executive committee, would leave his position amid differences over the central bank’s bond purchases. Also, Bloomberg News reported Germany may reintroduce a fund to recapitalize its banks if the government in Athens defaults on the terms of loans, intensifying speculation about Greece. Yields on the 10-year Treasury note touched a low of 1.8976% , according to FactSet Research, before recovering to 1.9217% by late afternoon. Yields of other maturities slid as well. The 30-year bond  yield was down 6 basis points at 3.25%. A basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point. On the shorter-end, the 2-year note  yield slipped about 2 basis points to 0.18% after falling as far as 0.1529%. The 5-year security’s  yield dropped 6 basis points to 0.81%. For the week, yields across all the major maturities declined, with the yield on the 2-year note dropping 2 basis points. Yields on the benchmark 10-year note slid 21 basis points. U.S. financial markets were closed Monday. In addition to news regarding Stark’s resignation, steep losses on Europe’s major stocks markets amid worries over Greece also pulled investors away from risk assets. U.S. stocks finished sharply lower, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average  sliding 2.7% and the S&P; 500  also sinking 2.7%. Treasurys didn’t draw support from President Barack Obama’s announcement late Thursday of a $447 billion plan to create jobs by offering a package of tax cuts and other incentives to provide a jolt to the U.S. economy. The plan “appeared to be little more than a speed bump for the markets, which remain completely focused on developments out of Europe and the upcoming Federal Open Markets Committee meeting,” strategists at the Royal Bank of Scotland wrote to clients. “On any other day a U.S. Presidential address delivering a $447 billion stimulus that could shave 1% off the unemployment rate and boost 2012 growth by 2% might have weighed heavily on treasury yields,” Interactive Brokers’ Andrew Wilkinson wrote in a note to clients. “Yet the government’s need to act is borne out of the same crisis that has investors worried over the dangers lurking within the Eurozone once again on Friday,” he added. The U.S. dollar index , a measure of the greenback’s performance against six widely traded rival currencies, jumped 1.2% to 77.144, while dragging the euro sharply lower. 
U.S. stocks in the coming week likely will face more of the European-driven volatility that’s bounced the Dow Jones Industrial Average on a series of triple-digit swings over the past six sessions. “Europe is the dominant story that continues to be behind the volatility; there is not a clear path to recovery there that has led to making the market nervous,” said Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector analysis at Charles Schwab. On Friday, Wall Street’s nerves were further frayed as worries intensified about Greece’s debt crisis after the European Central Bank said its top economist Juergen Stark had resigned from its executive board, and Bloomberg News reported the German government was readying contingency plans to safeguard its banks in the event of a Greek default. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   fell 303.68 points, or 2.7%, to 10,992.13, leaving it with a weekly drop or 2.2%. The Standard & Poor’s 500  declined 31.67 points, or 2.7%, to 1,154.23, off 1.7% from the prior Friday’s finish. Down 0.5% for the week, the Nasdaq Composite Index  shed 61.15 points, or 2.4%, to 2,467.99. As nervous investors fled equities for perceived safer havens, U.S. Treasury yields dropped to historic lows, with the benchmark 10-year yield  declining to 1.8976%, the lowest on record in Fed data going back to 1953. The U.S. dollar hit a six-month high against the euro , which dropped to a low of $1.3697 as investors worried about the euro bloc’s economy at large. Given the negative sentiment, it doesn’t take much in the way of good news to push the market higher, and even modestly positive events can have an impact, said Sorensen, pointing to Wall Street’s rise Wednesday after a German court cleared the nation’s participation in the euro bloc’s rescue fund. Domestically, U.S. economic data in the coming week is expected to show weak but continued growth, and given the dearth of corporate results “one-off events will drive the market over the next week or two,” said Sorensen. Investors will be getting reads on consumer sentiment, retail sales and a regional gauge from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve. The new week will likely have further analysis and political debate over President Barack Obama’s proposed a $447 billion jobs plan, with tax cuts making up for more than half of its estimated cost. Obama made his proposal to a joint session of Congress Thursday night, following a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke during the day. “They essentially joined forces with the aim to deter lawmakers from prematurely tightening fiscal policy,” said Beth Ann Bovino, a senior economist at Standard & Poor’s. 
Intersil Corp. shares rose Monday evening, finding higher ground after the company cut its quarterly revenue forecast, while NetLogic Microsystems Inc. shares slipped following their record-setting dayside rally in the wake the company’s pending acquisition by Broadcom Corp. Chip maker Intersil said it now expects its third-quarter revenue of $184 million to $188 million, down from its previous forecast for $205 million to $213 million. Analysts polled by FactSet Research currently expect revenue of $209.6 million. Intersil cited weaker-than-expected demand during the period as reason for its reduced outlook. “We believe this is the result of broad-based economic weakness, along with some excess inventory consumption,” said Intersil’s Chief Executive Dave Bell in a statement. “However, we now see signs that inventory is stabilizing, with bookings likely recovering to consumption rates during the remainder of the third quarter,” Bell said. The company’s shares  rose 4.2% to $11.10 in active volume. Intersil also reiterated its expectation for third-quarter net earnings to be impacted by $8 million in non-cash costs related to long-term debt refinancing. The third-quarter report is slated for release Oct. 26. Late-traded NetLogic shed 0.2% to $48.02. The stock surged 50.8% to $48.12 in the regular session, their best closing price since going public in 2004, after Broadcom  said it will purchase NetLogic for $3.7 billion. Broadcom seeks to bolster its portfolio in the market for communications processors. Shares of Broadcom edged up a penny in evening trade to $33.07. They ended regular-session trading down 1.1%. The purchase price for NetLogic, at $50 a share, represents a 57% premium to NetLogic’s closing price on Friday. On the broader U.S. equity market, stocks staged a rally in the final minutes of the regular session. Stocks had been down for the bulk of the day on heightened worries that Greece will default. But the key indexes attempted to close with slight gains. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  ended up 69 points, or 0.6%, to 11,061.12 and the S&P; 500 Index  rose 8 points, or 0.7%, to 1,162.27. The Nasdaq Composite Index  moved 27 points, or 1.1%, higher to 2,495.09. 
 By , MarketWatch NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Oil service firm Transocean Ltd. helped boost energy stocks into positive territory on Tuesday as the sector found its footing despite weakness in Exxon Mobil. Shaking off losses earlier in the session, the NYSE Arca Oil Index  rose 0.7%, boosted by a 2.9% jump from component Hess Corp. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  rose and the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  both advanced by 1%. Setting a bullish tone for energy stocks, Transocean  jumped 2.8%. Analyst Phil Weiss of Argus Research said in a note to clients that the company's planned $1.4 billion purchase of Aker Drilling will help its deepwater drilling business. “Transocean is acquiring the fleet at a modest discount to fair value,” Weiss said. He raised his 2011 earnings forecast on Transocean to $3.31 a share from $3.16 to reflect positive elements in the company’s recent fleet status update. In the broad equities market, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 45 points. Within the 30-stock DJIA, components Exxon Mobil  dropped 0.3% and Chevron Corp.  ended about flat. Adding to support for energy stocks, oil futures for West Texas Intermediate crude rose 2.2% to $90.30. Total SA  rose 0.1% while Marathon Oil  rose 0.8%. Chesapeake Energy Corp.  rose 2.4% and Southwestern Energy Co.  moved up by 2.7%. The International Energy Agency reduced its oil demand estimate by 0.2 million barrels a day for 2011 and 0.4 million barrels a day for 2012, citing lower economic growth. However, the agency still forecasts oil demand to be marginally higher than current supply next year. Among stocks in the spotlight, U.S.-listed shares of Cairn Energy PLC  lost about 8%. The Edinburgh-based oil and gas exploration and production company said Tuesday it’ll plug and abandon its Gamma-1 Well in the Eqqua Block, West Disko Area. 
U.S. stocks rose for the second session Tuesday, with Wall Street latching onto any signs that Europe will contain its debt crisis. After rising nearly 80 points and falling 74 points, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  ended higher by 44.73 points, or 0.4%, to 11,105.85. The gap between the Dow’s low and high points — 153.67 — was the narrowest since July 26, according to The Wall Street Journal’s market-data group. Twenty-three of 30 Dow components rose, led by a 2.7% gain in General Electric Co.  shares. In Europe, German Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed optimism that European leaders would resolve Finland’s objections to rescue measures for Greece. “Right now, you have to think about Greece as a binary event, like a biotech company in phase three [of] development; they are either going to make it or they are not, and it’s up to Germany,” said Arthur Hogan, head of product strategy, equity research at Lazard Capital Markets. The S&P; 500 Index  gained 10.6 points, or 0.9%, to 1,172.87, with industrials leading gains among all 10 industry groups. The Nasdaq Composite Index  added 37.06 points, or 1.5%, to 2,532.15. The index, more oriented toward tech and small-cap companies than the Dow and S&P; 500, has advanced 2.6% this week, shaving September losses to under 2%. For every stock falling, more than three gained on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.1 billion shares traded. The Labor Department reported U.S. import prices fell 0.4% in August, mainly on lower energy costs, along with a decline in prices for food and materials. The data showing less inflationary pressure potentially offer the Federal Reserve added space for more stimulus moves to bolster the economy. Best Buy Co.’s  shares shed 6.5% after the consumer-electronics chain reported quarterly results short of Wall Street’s expectations. On Tuesday, oil prices climbed ahead of data expected to illustrate a second weekly drop in U.S. supplies of crude, with the futures contract for October delivery  gaining $2.02 to $90.21 a barrel, the best finish in nearly six weeks. Gold  also gained in New York, up $16.80 to $1,830.10 an ounce. Wall Street ended higher on Monday after reports that Italy’s finance minister had met with a Chinese delegation to talk about buying Italian bonds. Italian officials on Tuesday cooled that speculation, telling news services they hadn’t had such talks. Plus, an Italian bond auction showed poor demand. The euro , however, rose against the U.S. dollar to $1.37, tracking the rise in stocks. 
BP PLC rose Wednesday as the U.S. government released a report on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill that spreads the blame between the oil major and its contractors, while the broad energy sector moved higher. Although the report doesn’t eliminate liabilities faced by BP PLC , it removes some of the uncertainty around the April 20, 2010 accident, which killed 11 workers and caused the largest maritime oil spill in U.S. history. Shares of BP rose 5%. The report includes dozens of recommendations to change offshore drilling practices. The document presents the findings of a 17-month federal investigation into the blast of the Deepwater Horizon rig on BP’s Macondo well by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement and the U.S. Coast Guard. “The blowout at the Macondo well...was the result of a series of decisions that increased risk and a number of actions that failed to fully consider or mitigate those risks,” the report said. "While it is not possible to discern which precise combination of these decisions and actions set the blowout in motion, it is clear that increased vigilance and awareness by BP, Transocean and Halliburton personnel at critical junctures during operations at the Macondo well would have reduced the likelihood of the blowout occurring.” Shares of Halliburton , which performed cement work on the well, fell 0.3%, while Transocean  , the owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig, rose 4.2%. Checking the major indexes in the energy sector, the NYSE Arca Oil Index  rose 1.4%. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  moved up by 1.3% and the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  jumped about 1.5%. In the broad equities market, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 141 points. Within the 30-stock DJIA, energy sector components Exxon Mobil  and Chevron   rose about 1.4% each. Analysts at Sterne, Agee & Lynch on Wednesday downgraded oil and gas producer EOG Resources Inc.  to underperform. EOG Resources may have to raise capital to meet its plan to increase production of natural gas liquids, analysts said. “We feel this dilutive action can cause underperformance compared to the peer group,” analysts said. Sterne, Agee & Lynch also cut its rating on Denbury Resources Inc.  to underperform. “We believe that in 2012 Denbury Resources will begin to accelerate its Rockies enhanced oil recovery build-out,” analysts said. “The corresponding capital requirements...could cause the equity to underperform within its peer group,” analysts said. Shares of EOG rose 1.2%, while Denbury Resources rose about 1.9%. 
Marathon Oil Corp. posted big gains on Thursday while U.S.-listed shares of European oil producers rebounded after the European Central Bank and others vowed to auction off dollars to raise liquidity. Setting an upbeat tone for the sector, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  moved up by 186 points, Within the 30-stock DJIA, energy sector components Exxon Mobil  and Chevron  both advanced by about 2%. Marathon Oil   rose 4.3%. The Wall Street Journal reported that drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico now includes 23 rigs, the same level prior to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion and leak of the Macondo well. Marathon lists the Gulf of Mexico as a ”core area” for oil and gas exploration, with significant interests in seven producing fields. “We have rebuilt our inventory of prospects for future exploration activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,” Marathon said in its corporate Web site. Elsewhere in the energy sector, Total SA rose 2.3%, after falling sharply in recent days on jitters in the French banking sector. BP PLC  advanced by 3.2%, adding to gains from the previous session, after U.S. regulators wrapped up a 17-month investigation of the Deepwater Horizon accident. Joining the party, Royal Dutch Shell  rose 3%. In the broad energy sector, the NYSE Arca Oil Index  rose 2.3%. The NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index  moved up by 1.5% and the Philadelphia Oil Service Index  advanced by 1.6%. Energy stocks in the S&P; 500 collectively rose 2%, led by a 4.7% jump from Pioneer Natural Resources Among analyst actions, Deutsche Bank shuffled ratings on coal firms in an attempt to move to relative quality or value within its coverage area. Analysts upgraded Arch Coal  to buy from hold and cut their price target to $29 a share from $32 a share. James River Coal  was downgraded bo hold from buy, with a new price target of $12 a share, down from $24 a share. Peabody Energy  was downgraded to a hold to a buy, with a new price target of $65 a share, from $70. In other analyst moves, Oppenheimer & Co. initiated coverage of several midcap energy firms. SM Energy  , Carrizo Oil & Gas  and Kodiak Oil & Gas Corp.  drew outperform ratings, while Cimarex Energy  was rated as a perform. 
U.S. stocks closed higher for the fifth straight session Friday, pushing weekly gains to more than 4%, as investors dialed down their concerns about an impending Greek debt default. It was the first weekly rise in three for the Dow average and the S&P; 500. The Dow Jones Industrial Average   gained 7 4.7% for the week. The S&P; 500  rose 5.4% for the week and the Nasdaq Composite  rallied 6.3% for the week. Also, please be sure to watch our Week Ahead videos for the U.S. and Europe. Greg Morcroft, assistant managing editor. China views Europe as a strategic partner and stands willing to expand its investments in the region, Premier Wen Jiabao said Wednesday, urging that Europe acknowledge China’s status as a market economy. “We have been concerned about the difficulties faced by the European economy for a long time, and we have repeated our willingness to extend a helping hand and increase our investment,” the official Xinhua News Agency cited Wen as saying in an address to the World Economic Forum in the northeastern coastal city of Dalian. Moody’s Investors Service on Wednesday downgraded French banks Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA as the credit-rating company also said it has become increasingly concerned about the funding and liquidity needs of the lenders. The announcements came after big swings for French-bank stocks in recent days amid reports that downgrades were imminent and as investors became increasingly nervous about the banks’ funding situation. Even a few weeks ago, most analysts would have argued that the euro could struggle on for a few more years yet.There was plenty of ammunition left in the armory. Moving to a common fiscal policy, and jointly issued eurobonds, would help out the weaker members of the single currency. A massive dose of quantitative easing from the European Central Bank would lift the continent out of depression. Sure, neither would be a long-term solution. But they would keep the show on the road. This week, even a temporary fix looks increasingly unlikely. Financial markets indicate Greece’s chaotic sovereign-debt saga is moving inevitably toward default, economists said, leaving European leaders and policy makers scrambling to avert a potentially disastrous domino effect that could wreck the euro and send the global economy into a tailspin. Signs of stress in the banking system continue to mount. The European Central Bank on Wednesday said it allotted $575 million in dollar loans to two banks, marking the second time in a month that its dollar swap facility has been tapped. Should you take out a new mortgage — or home equity line of credit — and spend the money buying stocks? The question may sound totally crazy. It’s certainly not for the unsophisticated. But events in the stock, bond and mortgage markets in the past few weeks have made it a question you have to ask. What’s going on? 
Oil futures sank more than 2% Monday, marking their lowest close in three weeks, on worries Greece could soon default, further undercutting economic growth and global oil demand. Oil for October delivery  closed down $2.26, or 2.6%, at $85.70 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest close for the benchmark since Aug. 26 and its worst drop since Sept. 2. Last week oil gained 0.8%. Oil futures had traded lower, but in a range between $86 and $87.75, in Asian and European trading as investors reacted to reports euro-zone finance ministers meeting late last week delayed a decision to release Greece’s next round of aid as Athens came under pressure to enact more austerity measures. Greece is likely to run out of cash within weeks without the aid. A emergency teleconference between Greece and creditors including the International Monetary Fund on Monday ended without a statement of action. Greece’s finance ministry said the conference call will be repeated Tuesday at the same time. “It’s really a follow through of some disappointing meetings in Europe. Leaders can’t get into any kind of agreement to come to a solution about the debt crisis,” said Mike Zarembski, senior commodities analyst at OptionsXpress. “We’re seeing the usual flight to quality — the dollar higher, the Treasury market higher. It’s a risk-off day,” he said. Oil made another leg down as U.S. stocks tumbled from the start. On halt to halt five straight sessions of gains, the Dow Jones Industrial Average   spent much of the session down 200 points and recently traded off 187 points, or 1.6%, at 11,322. For oil, U.S. stocks have recently been acting as a barometer of investors’ perception of global economic growth. And on days when it’s seemed likely some European countries will default on their debt, oil has moved in tandem with equities. The dollar rose, with the dollar index  gaining 0.8% to 77.14. Gasoline for October delivery  ended down 9 cents, or 3.2%, at $2.70 a gallon. October heating oil  fell 6 cents, or 2.1%, at $2.94 a gallon. Natural gas for October delivery   reversed up 2 cents, or 0.5%, at $3.83 per million British thermal units. Some resolution to the Greek debt situation — even in the form of a default — could help break oil out of its recent range, said analysts. “Once that gets out of the way, it could clear the air, we could see a bit of recovery,” said Zarembski. While Greece concerns were depressing oil prices Monday, “I think this concern is overblown — it will not have the impact on the U.S. economy that it will have on Europe. It is the European banks that have most of the Greek debt,” Charles Perry, chief executive officer at energy-consulting firm Perry Management. In oil news, the secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said Gulf oil producers are expected to cut their output once Libya resumes production. Secretary General Abdalla Salem el-Badri, a Libyan, told a forum in Dubai that Libya could reach pre-unrest production levels within 15 months, as few key facilities were damaged, reported Zawya Dow Jones. Saudi Arabia had led a group of Gulf producers in increasing output this summer on forecasts for higher demand. Jason Schenker, a commodities analyst and president of market research firm Prestige Economics LLC, said the OPEC comments were not having much impact on the day’s trading because the production moves were likely several months in the future “and they’re also saying something reasonable we’d already expect.” Instead, oil traders are likely more focused on the risk the Federal Reserve may avoid offering another big liquidity boost — known as quantitative easing — when it concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting Wednesday. “If the Fed does not take meaningful action on Wednesday, it increases the risk probability we slide again into recession,” Schenker said. “Risk is asymmetrically to the downside for industrial commodities.” Also, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said world energy consumption should grow 53% by 2035, led by demand growth in India and China. 
U.S. financial stocks plummeted Wednesday after a series of debt downgrades in the banking sector the Fed’s statement from its most recent Federal Open Market Committee meeting. The central bank said it would buy about $400 billion in Treasurys with remaining maturities of 6 to 30 years while selling an equal amount of securities with maturities of 3 year or less. The Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&P; 500,  fell 5%, after being down only 0.8% before the FOMC statement and up about 0.2% near the beginning of the session. Financial stocks ended the day as the worst performing sector in the S&P; 500. The KBW Bank Index , which consists of the nation’s 24 leading banks and had also been down about 0.8% before the FOMC statement, closed down 5.5%. Financial stocks had already been up against the ropes before the FOMC statement after Moody’s kicked off a flurry of bank downgrades beginning with Bank of America Corp . Losses in the banking sector quickened after Standard and Poor’s followed that up with a series of Italian bank downgrades. Bank of America shares closed down 7.5% and were the worst performer on the Dow Jones Industrial Average after Moody’s downgraded the bank’s long-term debt to Baa1 from A2. Moody’s did not stop there, though. The ratings agency followed up its B. of A. downgrade by lowering the long-term ratings of Wells Fargo & Co.  to A2 from A1. Moody’s also cut the short-term ratings of Citigroup Inc.  to Prime-2 from Prime-1. In all the Moody’s actions, the ratings agency cited the lower probability that the U.S. government would prop up the banks in the event of another financial crisis because of lower contagion risks even if a formerly “too big to fail” bank were allowed to fail. While Moody‘s focused on U.S. banks, Standard & Poor‘s unleashed a series of downgrades on Italian banks following a cut in that country‘s sovereign debt rating earlier in the week. Other financial-sector Dow components closed lower with J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  down 6%, shares of American Express Co. fell 2.1% and Travelers Cos. shares  dropped 4.4%. Other notable laggards on the sector included Morgan Stanley , SunTrust Banks Inc.  and Lincoln National Corp.   The only S&P; 500 financial stock to close with a gain Wednesday was IntercontinentalExchange Inc. with shares finishing up 0.3%. 
Amazon.com Inc.’s shares pulled back while Netflix Inc.’s shares edged higher Monday evening following gains in the regular trading session for each after separate announcements about distribution deals. Netflix  shares rose 0.2% to $132.50. They closed the day session up 2.2% as the company said it will become the exclusive distribution television service for first-run feature films and some television specials from DreamWorks Animation SKG  . Netflix’s shares have been hit hard since July when the company outlined changes to its pricing structure. The shares are facing a nearly 50% drop for the third quarter, which ends this week, and that would mark the stock’s worst quarterly performance since the third quarter of 2004. Late-traded Amazon.com  shares fell 2.7% to $223.61. They had finished the regular session up 2.8% after the company said it signed a digital distribution deal with 20th Century Fox for video content. The deal will allow Amazon Prime members to be able to watch more than 11,000 movies and TV shows from Fox later this fall. News Corp.    owns Fox and MarketWatch, the publisher of this report. U.S. stocks rallied ahead of the evening-trading session, with optimism about Europe’s debt crisis helping the major indexes reduce last week’s sharp losses. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  surged 272 points, or 2.5%, to 11,043.86. The S&P; 500 Index  gained 2.3% and the Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 1.4%. 
Technology stocks joined a broader market rally on Tuesday, as Wall Street welcomed the latest signs of efforts to deal with the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe. The Nasdaq Composite Index  jumped 1.2% to close at 2,547, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 147 points to close at 11,191. Dow tech-sector components Hewlett-Packard Co. , IBM Corp. , Intel Corp.  and Cisco Systems Inc.  all helped power the blue-chip rally. H-P’s shares set the pace, gaining 3.9% to close at $23.59, while IBM rose 1.8% to close at $177.71, Intel added 1.4% to close at $22.54 and Cisco gained a fraction to close at $16.07. Shares of Research In Motion   jumped 4.5% to close at $22.65 on a report from Reuters the investor Carl Icahn had acquired a stake in the BlackBerry manufacturer. Other sector notables also posting gains included shares of Oracle Corp. , Google Inc.  and Dell Inc. . The Morgan Stanley High Tech 35 Index  was up 1.7%, while the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index  added 1.8%. Shares of Freescale Semiconductor  were up 4.3%, closing at $12.64. On Monday, the Austin, Tex.-based chip company said it expects third-quarter sales to decline 6% to 8% from the second quarter, compared to a previous forecast of flat to down 3% sequentially. The company attributed the revision to “weakness in the company’s industrial and networking businesses.” However, in a Tuesday note, Credit Suisse analyst John Pitzer said Freescale’s “earnings drivers remain intact,” adding that the company’s expectation of quarter-to-quarter improvement in gross margin should be seen as “validating cost-cutting/restructuring efforts.” Shares of Apple Inc.  slipped nearly 1% to close at $399.26 a day after the stock took a hit on speculation that it may be scaling back iPad production. In a Tuesday note, Sterne Agee analyst Shaw Wu said: “We checked in with our supply-chain sources and believe there is some merit to these cuts. However, we do not believe this puts risk to either ours or consensus iPad estimates as these build plans are still well above expectations.” Apple also sent out media invites to an Oct. 4 iPhone-related event at the company’s Cupertino, Calif.-based campus. Also on the downside, Amazon.com  saw its shares fall 2.5% to close at $224.21. The Internet company is widely expected to unveil its tablet product on Wednesday. Credit Suisse analyst Spencer Wang said the Amazon tablet “could be a new driver of revenue growth and could strengthen Amazon’s digital media business.” But Wang maintained a neutral rating on the stock, saying in a note: “While we continue to like Amazon’s long-term prospect and view Amazon as a core holding, our near-term enthusiasm is limited by macro risk and valuation.” 
U.S. stock futures rose Wednesday, as Finland’s parliament approved changes to the euro-zone bailout fund and as investors took data on durable-goods orders in stride. Off session highs, futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 50 points to 11,170 and those on the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index  gained 5.10 points to 1,174.60. Nasdaq 100  futures climbed 8 points to 2,262. The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods fell 0.1% in August, largely on big decreases in motor vehicles and parts as well as in defense capital goods. A MarketWatch survey had been looking for a 0.4% increase. Overall, the August data on big-ticket items supply “further evidence that the U.S. economy was most certainly not in recession. That is hardly worth celebrating but these days, we’ll take what we can get,” wrote Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG LLC. In a closely watched vote, the Finnish parliament voted 103 to 66 to approve changes to the euro-zone bailout fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility. The changes require approval of all 17 euro-zone member parliaments. Germany’s Bundestag will vote on Thursday. Also boosting sentiment, the troika of Greece’s international lenders will return to Athens on Thursday to resume their review of the nation’s compliance with terms of last year’s bailout program, a European Commission spokesman said in Brussels on Wednesday. And in a speech Wednesday to the European Parliament, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said that “Greece is, and will remain, a member of the euro area.” He also called on the European Central Bank to “do whatever is necessary” to ensure the integrity of the euro area. Some European markets edged into positive territory. Germany’s DAX 30  gained 0.4%, while the pan-European Stoxx 600 index  slipped 0.2% after rallying 7% over the last three trading days on hopes European officials are working to find a solution to the debt crisis. The blue-chip Dow industrials  rose 1.3% on Tuesday but pared gains late in the session, after the Financial Times reported that European leaders were split over the terms of Greece‘s second bailout package. Overnight in Asia, stock markets finished mixed, with Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average  eking out a marginal gain. After the U.S. stock markets close, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke will give a speech in Cleveland scheduled for 5 p.m. Eastern. In the technology sector, Amazon.com Inc.  is expected by analysts to unveil its first tablet device. The company will hold an event Wednesday morning in New York but hasn’t given further details, though it has launched past versions of its Kindle e-reader device at similar functions in the city. In the currency markets, the euro gained to $1.3618. The dollar index , which tracks the performance of the greenback against a basket of other major currencies, slipped to 77.631. In commodities, gold for December delivery  fell $3.90 to $1,648.60 an ounce in electronic trading on Globex. November crude-oil futures  slipped $1.17 to stand at $83.28 a barrel ahead of weekly government data on U.S. petroleum supplies. 
U.S. stock futures extended their gains Thursday after the government reported a steep drop in jobless claims and a better round of revised GDP data. Stock-index futures were already climbing after plans to enhance Europe’s bailout fund comfortably passed a key vote in Germany. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 150 points to 11,126, while those on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  added 16.20 points to 1,164.9. Nasdaq 100 futures  rose 37.50 points to 2,256. The Labor Department reported initial claims for jobless benefits last week declined by 37,000 to 391,000, their lowest level since April. But an unusual calendar alignment made it harder for the government to adjust the count for seasonal variations. And, figures from the Commerce Department had the U.S. economy growing at a 1.3% pace in the second quarter, better than projected last month and exceeding expectations. Thursday’s gains came after U.S. stock markets tumbled on Wednesday, with the Dow Industrials  closing down around 180 points, amid concerns that European leaders still haven’t been able to reach a consensus on how to handle the debt crisis. European stock markets were also mostly higher Thursday, with the Stoxx Europe 600 index  up 0.2%. German law makers voted overwhelmingly to approve expanding the lending power and flexibility of the European Financial Stability Facility, with 523 members of the lower house of parliament backing the plan, while 85 opposed it. Markets also awaited a further breakdown of how many legislators from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ruling coalition opposed the plan, as a significant rebellion from inside the coalition would make her position weaker. “If she loses the ‘chancellor’s majority,’ then this could spell trouble for the ruling party and the opposition will start to call for an election,” said Capital Spreads CEO Simon Denham, ahead of the vote. “Such destabilization is precisely not what the euro zone needs right now.” The dollar   dropped against major rivals, with the euro   climbing to $1.3645. Gold   and crude-oil futures   all moved modestly higher. Among stocks to watch, shares in Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  dropped 8.1% in premarket trading after the chip maker cut its third-quarter sales forecast late Wednesday. 
Shares of several high-end retail goods companies slumped Thursday in the U.S. and Europe on worries a worsening global economic climate could weaken Chinese appetite for premium branded products. The tumble came amid growing fears of a hard economic landing in China, which has emerged as a key driver of the world’s economy in the wake of the global financial crisis. The concerns circle around the possibility that China could face a sharp slowdown in exports in coming months, aggravating the headwinds facing the Asian country and dampening the nation’s demand for premium brands such as Louis Vuitton and Tiffany. “Fears of a hard landing in China have once again intensified. While our base case remains a soft landing led mainly by an investment slowdown, we see increasing downside risk from the situation in Europe and at home,” Barclays Capital economists led by Yiping Huang wrote in a report earlier this week. Barclays said hard-landing would be scenario in which the Chinese economic growth slows to between 5.5% to 6.5% in 2012. Shares of Tiffany & Co.  skidded 6.9%, Coach Inc.  dropped 6.1% and Ralph Lauren Corp.  shed 2.6% in U.S. trading Thursday, even as the S&P; 500 Index  and the Dow Jones Industrial Average  posted gains during the session. Earlier in the day in Paris, shares of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton  sank 5.2% and Hermes International S.C.A.  skidded 6.2%. Shares of Switzerland’s Swatch Group AG , which owns several high-end watch brands including Omega, Breguet and Longines, dropped 5.8%. The sharp declines reflect the increasing purchasing power of Chinese nationals, and growing awareness and demand for popular, high-end branded products. William Gamble, president of Emerging Market Strategies, said the Chinese economy could be headed for a hard-landing but was unlikely to collapse. He cited high inflation in the domestic market and lack of growth in overseas markets among the reasons. Some other analysts remain skeptical about a hard-landing in China, however. “[On] the discussion of a hard landing [in China], market observers have been talking about this for a long time. But so far the empirical evidence seems to show that China looks to be engineering a soft landing….In Shanghai, and most urban areas within China, there is tangible growth that you can see on the street,” said Richard Kang, chief investment officer and director of research at Emerging Global Advisors LLC. Chinese stocks in Shanghai and Hong Kong have themselves under-performed U.S. counterparts so far this year amid worries about Beijing’s policy tightening measures and quality of loans made by Chinese banks, especially those to the nation’s local governments and their projects. Kang said a hard landing would be when growth is “completely decimated” as the people stop spending. “Unlike the U.S., I don’t think a lot of people are underwater on their mortgages [in China]. Debt levels versus the U.S. and the rise of income in China are two trends that are different to what we’ve seen in the U.S.,” he added. 
Shares of Micron Technology Inc. fell in Thursday’s after-hours session following the memory chip maker’s unexpected swing to a quarterly net loss. Micron shares  lost 3.4% to $5.67 after the company said it swung to a net loss of $135 million, or 14 cents a share, in its fiscal fourth quarter. A year ago, it made $342 million, or 32 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet Research had expected earnings of 1 cent a share for the most recent period. Sales were $2.14 billion, down from $2.49 billion in the same period a year ago. Wall Street expected sales to come in at $2.11 billion. Micron also said consolidated gross margin fell to 15% in the fourth quarter from 22% in the third quarter, largely because of “significant declines” in average selling prices for DRAM chips. Two of the three key U.S. stocks indexes finished the regular session higher in see-saw trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed up 143 points, or 1.3%, to 11,153.98. The S&P; 500 Index  rose 0.8%, but the Nasdaq Composite Index  closed 0.4% lower at 2,481. 
Will October finally be the month in which it is safe to get back into the market? You may recall that I asked this very same question a month ago in this space, and concluded that “it’s still too volatile to safely enter [the stock] market.” ( ) The basis of my saying that was a simple VIX-based market timing model that recommends going to cash whenever the CBOE’s Volatility Index   rises above its historical median (which is right around 20), and only getting back in when it drops back below. Since the VIX at the beginning of September was above 30, that model advised caution. That turned out to be sage advice, since the Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell another 5% or so during the month of September. And it remains the recommendation of the model going into the month of October, since the VIX is now above 40. What if the market calms down sufficiently during October and the VIX drops way back? It’s entirely possible, since October — despite its reputation of being an awful one for stocks — is a month in which many major rallies begin. In anticipation of such an all-clear signal, investors might want to begin preparing their buy list now. To help you do so, I queried the Hulbert Financial Digest’s database to find those stocks that satisfied the following three criteria: 1. Are currently recommended for purchase by at least four of those advisers who have beaten the market over the last 15 years 2. Have a dividend yield of at least 1%, which would cushion any residual volatility that persists even after the VIX has dropped way back 3. Have a beta of no more than 0.8, for the same reason of cushioning any residual volatility The following stocks survived this narrowing-down process: — Abbott Labs   — Chevron   — ExxonMobil   — IBM   — Johnson & Johnson   — PepsiCo   — Verizon Communications   — Wal-Mart Stores   Editors’ note: Stock picks and analyses such as the one above now appear each week in Mark Hulbert’s latest investment information service — Hulbert on Markets: What’s Working Now. Mark Hulbert does not own any of the stocks mentioned in this column. 
This was supposed to be another fruitful year for U.S. stocks. So far, not so good. Now, after enduring a summer-long market drought and geopolitical wildfires, investors in equity mutual funds and exchange-traded funds aren’t expecting much of an annual harvest, but they shouldn’t rule out a year-end rally. Debt troubles from Athens to Washington preoccupied investors throughout the third quarter and gave U.S. stock funds their worst drubbing since the financial-market meltdown three years ago. Sporadic rallies provided a brief lift but only masked an overall pessimistic trend for stocks and stockholders alike. The biggest weight on stock investors has been the European debt crisis. Europe’s financial meisters and ministers, with an assist from the U.S., are trying to orchestrate an “orderly” default for Greece. Their overarching goal: protect big European and U.S. banks from a knockout punch that could trigger another worldwide recession — that is, unless a recession is already here. “What is a bad economy is about to get much worse,” said Lakshman Achuthan, co-founder of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, which at the end of September said the U.S. would be hit with another recession that would not spare other developed nations and emerging markets. “We are seeing the weakness spread widely,” Achuthan said. “There’s a contagion…that’s not going to be snuffed out. The nature of a recession is not a statistic. It’s a vicious feedback loop. Sales fall, production falls, income falls and that depresses sales. We’re in that and it’s going to run its course.” That cycle may take awhile, given the massive levels of debt that governments, corporations and households around the developed world are being forced to whittle down. Against that backdrop, stock-market recoveries will be more fragile and easily derailed, recessions more frequent, and heightened volatility the rule rather than the exception. Stock investing therefore will need to become more nimble and proactive, a far cry from the “set-it-and-forget-it,” buy-and-hold mantra that most individual investors who came of age in the past 30 years have been taught. “The next decade will likely be one where buy and hold will generally be a fairly poor option in developed markets,” Deutsche Bank analysts told clients in a report last month. “There will be large cyclical rallies punctuated by recessions and funding crises. “We need at least a decade to make the adjustments in both asset prices and debt levels to return the normal rhythm of long-term returns,” the report noted. “Until then, expect a highly unstable, volatile and ultimately ‘Grey’ decade.” Still, at the moment the U.S. arguably is the cleanest dirty shirt in the world’s hamper, as the resurgent U.S. dollar attests. So some analysts are looking for U.S. stocks to finish the year on an upbeat note, at least compared with less-resilient areas of the world. “The United States remains in somewhat better shape than Europe,” equity-market analysts at BlackRock Inc. noted in a late September research report. “On balance, we believe the economy will continue to ‘muddle through’ at a weak but still positive rate.” Stock buyers should look for opportunities in technology, energy and other cyclical market sectors, BlackRock strategists said. They also favor health care, a sector whose constituents historically have exhibited strong pricing power in weak economic conditions. The analysts added: “Companies that have the ability to raise dividends, buy back stock and make new investments are well-positioned.” In that sense, stock funds and ETFs with shares of high-quality, cash-rich U.S. companies in their portfolio would be better able to weather headwinds. Also working in stock funds’ favor is that fourth-quarter returns have been solidly positive on average for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and its sectors since 1990, when S&P; began keeping sector records. (So has the second quarter, just not as strongly.) Over these past two decades, consumer discretionary, consumer staples and technology stocks have been the largest outperformers in the final three months of the year, topping the index’s 4.7% average gain for the period, according to S&P.; Health care, industrials, materials and telecom also have tended toward above-market returns, while energy, financials and utilities finished below-average, but still in positive territory. 
Brazilian and other Latin American equities slid Monday, opening the final quarter of 2011 in the red as Greece’s warning that it will miss key deficit targets extended worries about reduced demand for goods exported from the region. Brazil’s Bovespa  slumped 2.9% to 50,791.53, its lowest closing level in nearly a month. Heavily weighted shares of Vale SA , the world’s largest miner of iron ore, fell 2.5% as steel producer Gerdau  declined 3.7%. Shares of oil producer Petrobras SA  lost 3.6% as crude-oil futures ended at their lowest level in more than a year. Crude for November delivery  fell 2% to $77.61 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Meanwhile, Argentina’s Merval  tumbled 7% to 2,291.68, dropping back to a level not seen since July 2010. Chile’s IPSA  fell 3.2% to 3,763.91, and Mexico’s IPC  fell 1.1% to 33,133.88. Losses came as Greece said it won’t be able to meet its deficit target this year, with the country suffering through a worse-than-projected contraction. The economy is now expected to shrink by 5.5% in 2011, wider than the 3.8% rate anticipated in June, according to the latest forecast from Greece’s Finance Ministry. European stocks dropped Monday, and U.S. stocks sold off, leaving the key indexes at their worst closings since September 2010. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 258 points and the S&P; 500 Index  lost 2.9%. Also Monday in Sao Paulo, shares of JBS   fell 2.2% after the beef producer said in a statement on its website that it it’s not in talks “with national or international banks to fund a possible merger.” Recent press reports have suggested Marfrig Alimentos SA   and Minerva SA as potential merger partners. Shares of Marfrig fell 1.5%. Off the main index, Minerva shares lost 2.6%. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke Tuesday said the central bank’s new policy of swapping bonds is not a “game-changer” but should help the economy avoid a new downturn. “We think this is a meaningful, but not an enormous support to the economy,” Bernanke told a congressional committee Tuesday. The central bank last month pledged to swap $400 billion of short-maturity government bonds into longer-maturity ones, and also said it would reinvest proceeds from maturing securities into mortgage-backed securities, taking a page out of what the central bank did in the 1960s under a program called “Operation Twist.” The Fed chairman said the program is equivalent to a 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate and would lower long-term rates by 20 basis points. “It should help somewhat on job creation and growth. It is particularly important now that the recovery is close to faltering,” he said. Bernanke said he didn’t have a precise estimate of how much the Twist plan would boost gross domestic product. “I would just put it as a moderate support, not something that is expected to radically change the picture, but should be helpful” to support growth while keeping prices stable, Bernanke told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. Stocks remained stuck in negative territory all day. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  was recently down 180 points to 10,479. Bernanke wasn’t optimistic about the outlook. He said a close reading of recent economic data doesn’t show any hint of improvement ahead for the weak U.S. labor market. “Recent indictors, including new claims for unemployment insurance and surveys of hiring plans, point to the likelihood of more sluggish job growth in the period ahead,” Bernanke said. Last week the central bank chief called the weak labor market a national crisis. On Friday, the government will release crucial nonfarm payroll report for September. The consensus forecast of economists surveyed by MarketWatch calls for a paltry 59,000 net new jobs created in September and for the unemployment rate to remain steady at 9.1%. The jobless rate has been near or above 9% since April 2009. Overall, the economy should pick up from the tepid 0.9% average growth rate of the first six months of the year, Bernanke said. Bernanke said that is remains “difficult to judge” how much the financial strains of the European debt crisis have affected U.S. economic activity thus far. “But there seems little doubt that they have hurt household and business confidence, and that they pose ongoing risks to growth,” Bernanke said. 
Financial stocks swung into positive territory by the close Wednesday, even as liquidity concerns hampered shares of real estate investment trusts, after optimistic news from Europe fueled a late-day rally for the second session in a row. The sector was pummeled for most of the day, but surged to a gain after a report that European bank regulators were planning a new round of stress tests, that, unlike ones earlier in the year, would account for the possibility of a Greek sovereign debt default. According to the Financial Times, the European Banking Authority is planning to provide a country-by-country breakdown of how much capital banks would need should Greece default on its debt. A recapitalization of the region’s banks reportedly could cost as much as 200 billion euros. The Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF , which tracks the financials in the S&P; 500, closed up 1.5%; and the SPDR KBW Bank Index advanced 1.1%. Earlier, the ETFs had been off more than 2%. The financial sector, which ranked as the worst performing of 10 sectors on the S&P; 500 Index , finished up the day as only the fourth worst, outperforming consumer staples, utilities and telecom. The last-minute rally mirrored Tuesday’s close when a report that European ministers agreed more needed to be done about the region’s debt crisis. Much of the weakness in financials came from a handful of REITs, which at one point traded down as much as 5% or more lower on the day. REITs including Equity Residential , AvalonBay Communities Inc. , Kimco Realty Corp.  and Boston Properties Inc. Prologis Inc. , Apartment Investment & Management Co. , and Simon Property Group Inc.  improved by the end of the day to losses in the ballpark of 1%. Merrill Ross of Wunderlich Securities said in a research note that the European Central Bank and other central banks may not be able to provide the level of temporary liquidity to global markets during a Greek default in the way the Federal Open Market Committee was able to provide liquidity when Lehman Brothers failed. “We believe there is some potential for disruption, but limited potential for counterparty risk to result in permanent equity erosion among the mortgage REITs,” Ross said in the note. REITs have become more and more reliant upon repurchase agreements, where securities are sold to investors and bought back a short while later, to fund their operations. If banks rein in lending because of a sovereign debt default, there’s a possible repeat of the last credit crisis that brought the short-term commercial paper market to a halt. “[REITs] rely on the liquidity of the interbank market,” Ross said in an interview. “If the market becomes disrupted there’s the risk that counterparties fail because someone else had a big writedown.” Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  shares also came under fire when the U.S. Department of Justice, New York’s attorney general and New York City sued the firm late Tuesday, alleging violations with client currency trades. Bank of New York Mellon shares closed down 2.9%. The lawsuit alleged that over 10 years BNY Mellon consistently misrepresented to customers the rates it would give foreign-currency transactions and that it made nearly $2 billion from these trades. The clients included both public and private pension funds. In a statement, BNY Mellon called the claims “flat out wrong, both on the law and on the facts” and vowed to defend itself vigorously. In August, the bank was hit with similar lawsuits from the states of Virginia and Florida regarding the handling of their respective pension funds. Morgan Stanley shares , which have been extremely volatile recently, fell finished the day up 3.4%. The shares, which have shed more than 10% in the last month, had rallied on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, analysts at rival Goldman Sachs weighed in on the shares and said that while the stock’s decline is potentially overdone, “the ‘unfortunate reality’ may be felt in segments of MS’ business where counterparty credit and the cost to hedge are ‘decisive trading factors.’” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  shares closed down 0.3%. Of the four Dow financial stocks — American Express Co. and Travelers Cos. Inc. , J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp. — all swung from losses to finish the day higher. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 1.2% to close at 10,939.95. In the closely-watched European banking sector, the top firms led markets there higher as hopes for a coordinated move to recapitalize the troubled sector outweighed worries over a downgrade of Italy by Moody’s Investors Service. Among major European lenders, shares in Deutsche Bank AG    rose 7.5% in Frankfurt and BNP Paribas SA  climbed 8.5% in Paris. 
Asian stocks rallied Thursday, helped by short covering in Hong Kong and positive cues from Wall Street after better-than-expected U.S. jobs figures. Hong Kong was among the leading advancers as the market returned from a holiday Wednesday, with the Hang Seng Index   jumping 5.7%. Japan’s Nikkei Stocks Average  ended the day up 1.7%, while Australia’s S&P;/ASX 200  traded 3.7% higher, and South Korea’s Kospi   climbed 2.6%. Mainland Chinese markets remained closed for a week-long holiday. The Asia share moves followed a 1.2% gain for the Dow Jones Industrial Average  and a 1.8% rise for the S&P; 500 , helped by upbeat economic data, including a better-than-expected gain in private-sector payrolls. . KGI Asia Chief Operating Officer Ben Kwong said this may have led investors to cover short positions, fueling the Asian rally, but he cautioned against tying the advance to any single factor. “You can pick any reason for the rally, but, for me, these are only excuses,” Kwong said. “The market is very sentiment-driven right now — whenever there’s any bad news shares sink, but when there is good news they’ll jump like a fox.” Many financials were outperforming the broader climb, with Nomura Holdings Inc.    up 3.8% and Daiwa Securities Group Inc.    adding 4.3% in Tokyo, Bank of China Ltd.      ahead by 4.5% and Bank of Communications Co.   rising 5%, and Macquarie Group Ltd.  climbing 6.9% in Sydney. In Japan, exporters — especially in the tech sector — were performing strongly as upbeat sentiment carried over from the U.S. session. Fujitsu Ltd.    rose 6.5%, Sony Corp.    traded 4.7% higher, and Elpida Memory Inc.    advanced 6.6%. Some Hong Kong-listed property developers saw particularly sharp gains, including Agile Property Holdings Ltd. , up 19.7%, and China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd.   , up 17.4%. Those shares had suffered in recent sessions amid concerns about funding for mainland property firms, and KGI Asia’s Kwong said the gains Thursday could constitute a relief rally after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao called for action to prevent a capital shortage. Gains in commodity prices also drove resources shares higher across the region. Australian miners rose sharply, with Rio Tinto Ltd.    up 4.9%, Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.    up 7.1%, Alumina Ltd.      adding 6.1%. In Hong Kong, Jiangxi Copper Co.      rallied 10.6%, and energy major Cnooc Ltd.    gained 8.5%, while in Tokyo Japan Petroleum Exploration Co.    climbed 4%. 
ServiceSource International Inc. shares jumped Thursday evening after the company raised financial forecasts, while Apple Inc. shares slightly stretched regular trading session losses following the death of company co-founder Steve Jobs. Stock in ServiceSource climbed 12% to $15. The software and information technology services company updated quarterly and yearly expectations, and said it now projects third-quarter revenue to come in above $49 million. It also foresees 2011 revenue surpassing $195 million. ServiceSource previously expected third-quarter revenue of $45 million to $46 million, and 2011 sales of $190 million to $192 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters currently expect ServiceSource’s third-quarter sales to come in at $46 million, and earnings to break even on a per-share basis. For 2011, Wall Street has pegged sales at $192 million. ServiceSource also expects to raise its forecasts for 2011 adjusted earnings, net earnings and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization when it announces final results for the quarter. Late-traded Apple shares slipped 0.2% to $376.77. The stock in the regular session ended 0.2% lower after swinging between gains and losses as investors assessed and analysts offered their views on the company’s future after the passing of Jobs on Wednesday. Analysts held bullish views on Apple shares, saying the company is in good shape with its current management team despite Jobs’s significant contributions. Jobs, who had battled health problems including pancreatic cancer, stepped down as Apple’s chief executive on Aug. 24. Tim Cook, who was Apple’s chief operating officer, succeeded Jobs. Ahead of the late-trading session, U.S. stocks surged as initial weekly claims for jobless benefits advanced less than feared, and as Europe stepped up efforts to bolster banks in the debt-troubled region. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 183 points, or 1.7%, to 11,123.33. The S&P; 500 Index  tacked on 1.8% and the Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 1.9%. 
Brazilian stocks climbed Thursday, rising with regional rivals as officials in Europe said they will ramp up efforts to aid banks and stabilize a key export market for Brazil. Brazil’s Bovespa  ended with a second straight gain, up 2.5% at 52,290.37, with all tracked sectors higher. Stock in Vale  , the world’s largest supplier of iron ore, gained 2.1%, and steel producer Gerdau   rose 3.8%. Also, shares of oil company Petrobras  tacked on 3.5% as November crude oil  rallied nearly 4%, and OGX Petroleo e Gas    rose 4.4%. Dow Jones Newswires on Thursday reported OGX’s controlling shareholder, Eike Batista, expects OGX to produce its first oil by the end of the year. The company had previously forecast production by September or this month, according to the report. Chile’s IPSA  jumped 5.1% to 3,889.01. Earlier this week, the IPSA reached its lowest closing level since late 2009. Argentina’s Merval  rose 2.2% to 2,360.82. U.S. stocks surged and European stocks rallied after the European Central Bank outlined new measures aimed at pumping liquidity to funding-strapped banks. Investors have been concerned about a funding freeze as the euro zone’s sovereign-debt crisis intensifies. The S&P; 500 Index  gained 1.8% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average  surged 1.7%. The ECB also kept its key interest rate unchanged at 1.5%. “The liquidity provisions will help the European banking system avoid a liquidity crunch. However, the measures won’t keep banks from facing questions about solvency,” senior economist Benjamin Reitzes at BMO Capital Markets wrote in a note Thursday. While a minority of the policy council called for a rate cut this month, he said to “expect their ranks to grow over the next month or two, as the sovereign-debt crisis is far from resolved, and the recent softer data trend is likely to continue.” Mexico’s IPC  gained 0.9% to 33,279.72, also finding support after the U.S. — Mexico’s largest trading partner — said weekly claims for jobless benefits rose less than expected. The data from the Labor Department came ahead of Friday’s widely watched U.S. monthly jobs report. 
U.S. stocks ended lower Friday, taking the shine off weekly gains, as investors weighed better-than-forecast jobs data against concerns over Europe, which were highlighted midsession by a ratings downgrade of Italy and Spain. For the week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average  and S&P; 500 Index  closed up about 2%. The Nasdaq Composite Index , for its part, rose 2.7% for the five-day period. Crude futures ended a choppy Friday session higher, keeping gains scored on a better-than-expected U.S. jobs report even after downgrades for Italy and Spain shook the equity market. Also please be sure to watch our Week Ahead videos. Greg Morcroft, assistant managing editor Steve Jobs, Apple Inc.’s  co-founder and chairman, died Wednesday at the age of 56, following a long battle with cancer. Apple issued a statement Wednesday night announcing the death of Jobs, who also served as the iconic consumer-electronics company’s chief executive two times over before stepping down in August, citing frail health. In an email to employees, Tim Cook, Jobs’s handpicked successor, called Jobs a “visionary and creative genius” as well as a “dear friend and inspiring mentor.” Economists and bankers who follow mortgage rates religiously think that rates don’t have much farther to drop from record lows. They expect that rates can only go up. But they also know they’ve been wrong before. Come Thursday, there was evidence of another significant drop, when 30-year fixed mortgages fell to an average 3.94% for the week ending Oct. 6 in Freddie Mac’s weekly survey of conforming mortgage rates. That’s the lowest rates have been in the survey’s history, which dates back to 1971. On the evening of Aug. 8 my uncle called me out of the blue to ask me one question: “Should I buy Apple or gold ?” You may recall that Aug. 8 was the day the S&P; 500 closed at the low for the year and the Dow was down more than 600 points. I’ve never really talked to my uncle about advice before, and I thought it was interesting that a casual investor in the financial markets would jump to those two choices. My point being, out of all the things to choose from in this volatile environment, he wanted to know which one of these high-profile investment choices was going to do better. My response (notice I didn’t say advice) to him was to expect volatile times ahead, and if he wanted to get into either one of those investments, make sure he was hedged. The nation’s labor market showed some small signs of improvement in September as job growth came in above market expectations and there were positive revisions to past months, U.S. government data showed Friday. Employment outside the farm sector grew by 103,000 workers in the month, the Labor Department said. Wall Street had expected a fairly tepid 59,000 increase in nonfarm payrolls for the month, according to a MarketWatch survey. “In absolute terms this is a weak jobs report. but it is much less bad than expected,” said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics. 
U.S. stocks indexes advanced 3% Monday, their best one-day performance in over six weeks, as France and Germany pledged to do everything necessary to support Europe’s banks, while investors also looked to the start of third-quarter earnings season. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 330.06 points, or 2.97%, to 11,433.18, its biggest one-day point and percentage gain since Aug. 11 and just a hair under its session high of 11,433.33. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  added 39.43 points, or 3.4%, to 1,194.89, its best one-day rise since Aug. 23. The Nasdaq Composite Index  gained 86.7 points, or 3.5%, to 2,566.05, also its best one-day gain since Aug. 23. The rally was broad but on moderate volume. All 30 Dow components were in the green, led by Bank of America Corp. , up 6.4%, and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. , up 5.2%. All 10 subsectors of the S&P; 500 also were in positive territory, led by financial stocks and then energy firms. Denbury Resources Inc.  gained 10%, taking the best-performer title for the S&P; 500, and Alpha Natural Resources rose nearly 9%. Citigroup Inc.   shares rose 7.6% and Morgan Stanley  added 7.4%. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were about 9 advancing companies for every decliner. Volume of advancing shares made up 96% of trades. New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 888 million shares and NYSE composite volume was around 3.95 billion, under the 30-day average. U.S. stocks followed European markets up after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy said over the weekend that they will reveal plans for a banking-sector recapitalization by early November. “There had been a reluctance to address bank recapitalization, which the market views as critical. This is recognition of the issue and a line drawn in the sand, which is viewed as progress,” said Russ Koesterich, chief investment strategist at iShares. The French and German comments gave investors some hope that European officials may take bigger steps deemed necessary to control the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, increasing the appeal of riskier assets like stocks, commodities and the euro, which rallied against the U.S. dollar. “The market might be too euphoric, but it’s what we’re focused on,” said Nick Kalivas, equities and fixed-income analyst at MF Global. 
Alcoa Inc. will hand in its third-quarter earnings report after Tuesday’s close, saddled with a stock price hovering near 18-month lows and facing lowered analyst expectations. Wall Street is looking for earnings of 22 cents a share from the mining and metals giant, according to the most recent FactSet Research poll. That’s down from the July 1 consensus forecast of 36 cents a share, though above the 6 cents of adjusted earnings the company reported in the third quarter of 2010. Sales are seen coming in at $6.24 billion, compared to $5.3 billion in the prior-year quarter. Analyst targets aren’t the only thing dropping. Alcoa  shares have shed 34% since the beginning of the year, making them the third-worst performer on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  over that time frame. Only Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Bank of America Corp.  have fared worse in the blue chip gauge. Alcoa’s stock, however, has shown signs of life in recent sessions and was up almost 1% at $10.14 early Tuesday after touching $8.45 last week. Alcoa is seen as an economic bellwether because its aluminum products are used in airplanes, cars and buildings. It’s also looked at as the unofficial start of earnings season. Wall Street analysts offered some bearish takes on Alcoa last week. Anthony Rizzuto at Dahlman Rose & Co. cut his third-quarter earnings target, citing lower aluminum prices and weak demand while Deutsche Bank downgraded the stock to hold from buy. 
Contrarian analysis is just as bullish today as it was one week ago, despite the impressive rally since then. In fact, some sentiment indexes are painting an even more bullish picture today than then. This is very encouraging news, from a contrarian point of view. The usual pattern is for market timers to become more bullish as the market rises. That the average market timer did not become more bullish suggests there is a very robust wall of worry for the stock market to climb. Consider the average recommended equity exposure among those short-term market timers monitored by the Hulbert Financial Digest who focus on the Nasdaq market (as measured by the Hulbert Nasdaq Newsletter Sentiment Index, or HNNSI). This average currently stands at minus 43.8%, which means that the typical Nasdaq market timer is currently recommending that his clients allocate nearly half of their equity portfolios to going short. That would be noteworthy at any time, since rarely has the HNNSI been this low. But it’s especially so right now, since the stock market is coming off such a strong rally. After all, from its intraday low a week ago, the S&P; 500 index   is now 11% higher. In fact, it’s been over a year since the HNNSI was as low as it is today. That prior occasion was early September 2010, and — incredibly — the Nasdaq Composite index   is 17% higher today than then. In other words, the average Nasdaq-oriented market timer is as pessimistic today as he was when the Nasdaq was a whole lot lower. Now that’s a wall of worry. Climbing that wall, how high can the market go? Contrarians typically do not attempt to answer this question, since it depends on what happens to sentiment if and when the market does rally. The most bullish scenario, from a contrarian perspective, would be for the market timers to remain aggressively bearish as the market rose. In that event, contrarians would argue that the rally has yet more staying power. Less bullish would be for the advisers to quickly jump back on the bullish bandwagon in coming days. For now, though, the wall of worry looks quite robust, strong enough to support a continuation of the rally. 
U.S. stock futures rose Wednesday, with the S&P; 500 Index readying to extend two days of gains, on expectations Slovakia would reach a deal to expand the European bailout fund. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 103 points to 11,433. Dow component Alcoa Inc.   fell 3.8% in premarket trade a day after the aluminum producer said profit declined in the second quarter, falling short of already lowered expectations that came with a slide in the metal prices. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index  gained 12.4 points to 1,202, while Nasdaq 100 futures  rose 28.75 points to 2,317.25. A “cautiously optimistic” tone tied to ideas European officials are moving to rein in the region’s debt woes has provided a lift as European equities turned broadly higher, said Michael Hewson, market analyst at CMC Markets in London. A general rise in risk appetite contributed to gains for equities and other assets perceived as risky, analysts said. Expectations for more movement toward a European bank recapitalization plan also factored into the firmer tone as investors await the presentation of capitalization proposals by European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso later Wednesday, wrote strategists at UBS. Earlier, PepsiCo Inc.  said third-quarter profit climbed to $2 billion, or $1.25 a share, after absorbing its acquisition of Russian dairy and juice firm Wimm-Bill-Dann. Investors are likely to pay close heed this earnings season to revised guidance, Hewson said. Downward revisions to outlooks would likely inject a note of caution, Hewson said. BlackBerry users around the world experienced a third consecutive day of service disruptions, with problems appearing to spread to Asia. Subscribers in Europe reported intermittent problems with email, messaging and browsing on the Research In Motion Ltd.  handsets, with further problems being reported across Asian markets including Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and India. Minutes from the Sept. 20-21 meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers will be closely watched at 2 p.m. Eastern time. The meeting saw the Fed announce its plan to “twist” the yield curve by swapping shorter-maturity government bonds for longer-dated instruments. The International Energy Agency on Wednesday revised down its forecasts for global oil demand by 50,000 barrels a day for 2011 and by 210,000 barrels a day for 2012, citing lower-than-expected economic growth. Global oil demand is expected to rise 1.1% to 89.2 million barrels a day in 2011 and to grow 1.4% to 90.5 million barrels a day in 2012, the agency said. European equities shook off early weakness to trade higher in recent action as shares of miners, technology firms and car makers gained ground. Major Asian equity markets rebounded from initial losses Wednesday, with gains for Chinese banks offsetting weakness tied to Alcoa’s disappointing results and concerns over Europe’s debt crisis. The Dow industrials  ended Tuesday down 16.88 points at 11,416.30. The S&P; 500  inched up 0.65 point to 1,195.54, while the Nasdaq Composite Index  rose 16.98 points to end at 2,583.03. In commodities trading Wednesday, Nymex crude-oil futures  rose 23 cents to stand at $86.04 a barrel in electronic trade. Gold futures  rose $24.70 to $1,685.70 an ounce. The euro  rallied against the U.S. dollar to change hands at $1.3780. 
Mexican stocks ended at a three-week high Wednesday, rising alongside regional peers and U.S. equities as the European Commission outlined efforts to rein in the euro zone’s crippling debt crisis. Mexico’s IPC  climbed 2.3% to 34,470.36, with only the transportation group lagging. Chile’s IPSA  rose 1.7% to 4,005.89 and Argentina’s Merval  gained 4.5% to 2,539.08, with each posting their second straight wins. Trading in Brazil was closed for a holiday. On Wall Street, the S&P; 500 Index  advanced 1% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.9%, bolstered by European Commission’s wide-ranging plan to tackle the sovereign debt crisis, including efforts to shore up the region’s banks. The International Monetary Fund has estimated European banks may need as much as 200 billion euros ($276 billion) in additional capital. Meanwhile, Slovakia’s political parties reached a deal to hold a second vote on proposals for the euro zone’s 440 billion euro ($607 billion) financial aid fund, according to reports. Uncertainty about how the debt crisis will be resolved and its impact on economies worldwide have contributed to sharp losses in Latin American equities this year. The IPC has fallen 11%, the IPSA has declined 19% and the 18-stocks Merval index has tumbled 28%. All the indexes are on track for their worst yearly performances since 2008 when the global financial crisis took its toll on stocks worldwide. On Wednesday in Mexico City, Cemex shares  , which have been battered this year, rallied 16%, with Europe a key market for the cement and ready-mix concrete supplier. Grupo Mexico  rose 4.4% as December copper  climbed, with metals investors looking to European Commission’s plan to tackle the debt crisis. Silver and gold miner Industrias Penoles  gained 3.4%. Also higher were shares of market heavyweight America Movil  , up 2.5%. Investors in the Mexican market appeared to have largely set aside a report showing the country’s industrial output increased at a less-than-anticipated pace in August. The Inegi statistics agency said industrial production rose 3.1% from the same month in 2010. Economists polled by Dow Jones Newswires had expected, on average, a rise of 3.4% in August. Seasonally adjusted output fell 1.08% in August from July, weighed in part by a 1.46% fall in manufacturing production. The decline in manufacturing production highlighted the Mexican economy’s dependence on the U.S. business cycle, and therefore, “whatever the U.S. policy makers do, or not do, will certainly have an impact on Mexico’s economic performance,” Alfredo Coutino, director of Latin American research at Moody’s Analytics, wrote in a note Wednesday. Mexico sends about 80% of its products to the U.S. 
If you’ve been following the market, you know that it’s resembled a wild roller coaster ride. Although selling in May was exactly the right move, when to get back in is less certain. At the moment, the charts look dreadful: the major stock indexes are well below their moving averages, and other technical indicators signal dangerous conditions. For insights into this volatile market, I spoke with trader Toni Turner, author of The Beginner’s Guide to Day Trading Online (2nd Edition). A few months ago, Turner noticed that the market was changing for the worse. “Starting with the rebellion in Egypt, the stock market was rising but the weekly candlesticks were getting wider and wider, which reflects indecision,” she said. “I also looked at an indicator called Average True Range (ATR). When it started to rise, it suggested it was time to be defensive.” Many people falsely believe that all this volatility is good for day traders. In fact, it’s difficult to make money when the market is making double- and triple intraday reverses. “Even one rumor can make the market turn on a dime,” Turner said. “We now have a headline-driven market, and it’s not based on the fundamentals of a sound economy.” Because of the extreme volatility, it’s often difficult for traders to book profits. “For example, if there is a rumor that China is buying Italian bonds, the market shoots up,” Turner said. “The next day, traders discover the rumor is false and the market falls. Traders who are close to the information have already gotten out.” When the market is this confused, Turner suggested a number of defensive strategies to use: There’s always an underlying force that influences market direction. Identifying what is moving the market can help you be on the right side of the trade. “My strategy is to establish what dynamic is leading the market,” Turner said, targeting what she calls the “boss du jour.” In the past, oil led the market, and often it’s the S&P; 500 Index  or Dow Jones Industrial Average   futures. “Right now the euro is the boss,” Turner said, “and it’s having a rough time. If the euro moves down, the market will often follow.” In the old days, U.S. traders didn’t pay much attention to the global markets, and few paid attention to the European Central Bank or unemployment in Germany. Now it’s a global market, and astute traders study world headlines for clues. One of the most basic skills in technical analysis is learning to identify confusion, or congestion. “Congestion on a chart is a series of stops and starts on a chart,” Turner said. “Right now we see this congestion on stocks that are normally docile. I can’t relate this to any recent period in history. It’s a mess. If you look at the defensive ETF sectors such as XLU  (Utilities SPDR), it’s usually a yawn, but when it’s acting like a tech stock, you have to wonder what is going on. Some of these stocks look like a kangaroo on speed.” 